Awareness Package for Employers “Of Domestic Workers” Issued by the Ministry of Human Resources & Emiratisation (MOHRE), UAE Federal Decree-Law No. (9) of 2022 and its Executive Regulations on Domestic Workers 4 Section (1): Approved Domestic Worker Recruitment Offices 5 They are offices that have a license and permit to engage in recruitment activities, issued by the Ministry of Human Resources & Emiratisation and other relevant entities in the country.What are Recruitment Offices? List of Approved Offices: Advantages: - Various recruitment packages designated for the needs of family members. - Recruitment prices determined by the Ministry. - Two-year warranty on domestic workers. - Trained domestic workers with awareness of the country’s customs and traditions.Approved Recruitment Offices Employers can find approved recruitment offices by scanning the barcode to download the file. To learn more 6 Section (2): Recruitment Packages 7 Recruiting a domestic worker who is listed on the employer’s record and resides with them during the contract period, for two years.Traditional Package: Temporary Package: Flexible Package: Providing a domestic worker registered with a recruitment office to work on a flexible basis (hours, days, week, month, six months, year)Recruitment Packages Providing a domestic worker registered with a domestic worker recruitment office to work for the employer for a contract period of two years. To learn more 8 Section (3): Obligations and Duties 9 Recruitment Office Obligations Refunding the recruitment amount to the employerConcluding a contract between the recruitment office and the employer according to the form approved by the Ministry. Refunding any amounts owed to the employer within two weeks if the domestic worker is returned or a report of their absence is filed.Rendering the domestic worker aware of and familiar with the country’s customs and traditions and the authorised channels for complaints.Bearing the expenses of returning the domestic worker to their home country and providing another one, or refunding the recruitment amount to the employer, in accordance with the decisions issued by the Ministry. Performing the necessary medical examinations for the domestic worker, within 30 days prior to his/her entry into the country. Providing suitable accommodation for the domestic worker, whether before he/she is provided to the employer or if the employer returns him/her to the recruitment office. To learn more The recruitment office shall be obligated to refund the recruitment amount to the employer in any of the following cases: The domestic worker is professionally and behaviourally incompetent during the probation period. The domestic worker terminates the contract or leaves work without a legitimate reason. Termination of the contract by the employer for failure to meet the conditions agreed at the time of recruitment, whether in the initial agreement or the contract concluded between the employer and the recruitment office. Lack of physical fitness to perform the required domestic service during the probationary period. 10 Mechanism for Calculating the Refund of the Recruitment Amount to the Employer Employer Obligations Payment of amounts owed to the recruitment office, plus the necessary government fees. Bearing the medical treatment costs for the domestic worker, according to the country’s regulations.Payment of the domestic worker’s wages specified in the employment contract, in accordance with the regulations set by the Ministry. Providing the necessary requirements for the performance of the agreed work and arranging a suitable place for the domestic worker’s accommodation. (12,000) Recruitment amount ÷ (24 months) Contract duration x (10 months) the remaining period of the contract = AED 5,000 the amount to be refunded to the employer.The recruitment office shall be obligated to refund the recruitment amount to the employer according to the following mechanism: Example: Refunding the recruitment amount in full to the employer within the first month. Refunding the recruitment amount in full if the domestic worker is medically unfit, during the 6-month probation period, plus the government fees. Refunding a portion of the recruitment amount after the first month and until the contract expires, according to the method mentioned below. Calculation method: Total recruitment cost ÷ the period of the worker’s employment contract in months (x) the remaining period of the worker’s employment contract To learn more 11 Wages All employers shall pay the wages of their domestic workers on the due date, through the Ministry’s Wage Protection System. The domestic worker’s wage shall be due from the first day of the month until the 10th of the same month. The following workers are exempt from the Wage Protection System procedures:The following professions shall be paid through the Wage Protection System for domestic workers:The following professions shall be paid through the Wage Protection System for domestic workers on an optional basis: • Private Trainer • Private Tutor • Personal Healthcare Provider • Personal Public Relations Officer (PRO) • Private Agricultural Engineer• Housemaid • Sailor • Nanny/ babysitter • Chef • Security Guard• Personal Driver • Household Shepherd • Household Horse Groomer • Household Falcon Tamer• Physical Labour Worker • Housekeeper • Farmer • Gardener A domestic worker who has a labour complaint pending in court and is not employed with the employer. A domestic worker against whom a work absence report has been filed. A new domestic worker within (30) days from his/her employment contract start date. For more details on the Wage Protection System, Scan the QR code:Employer’s Obligations 12 The domestic worker shall be entitled to annual leave in coordination with the employer.A worker shall be entitled to an annual leave of no less than of 30 days for each year of service; two days per month if the length of service exceeds 6 months and is less than 1 year.A domestic worker shall be entitled to a cash compensation instead of his/her annual leave pay upon termination of the contractual relationship.When traveling during his/her annual leave, a domestic worker is entitled to a return ticket once every two years.Annual Leaves Example of Calculating the Annual Leave Employment period 8 months x 2 = 16 days of basic salary. Employment period of one year = 30 days of basic salary. Employment period of 14 months x 2.5 = 35 days of basic salary. Employment period of more than 6 months and less than a year = 2 days per month. Employment period of one year = 30 days per year. Employment period of more than one year = 2.5 days per month. Employer’s Obligations 13 Section (4): Service-Related Systems 14 Domestic Worker Insurance To learn more, Scan the QR code:The scheme provides insurance for all financial dues of domestic workers, including unpaid wages, under an insurance policy covering the domestic workers’ dues in the event that the employer refrains from paying them, up to a maximum of AED 20,000, for a period of 30 months. This policy also covers the costs of repatriating the domestic worker’s body in case of death. The employer shall procure an insurance policy for all workers to ensure their financial dues, as a prerequisite for issuing a work permit. 15 Health Insurance for Domestic Workers To learn more, Scan the QR code:The Ministry of Human Resources & Emiratisation, in cooperation with the Federal Authority for Identity, Citizenship, Customs & Ports Security, and the Ministry of Health and Prevention, in coordination with several insurance companies, has launched a basic health insurance package for private sector employees and domestic workers, with competitive prices and a nominal treatment cost, providing a convenient option for employers to insure their employees accordingly. 16 Section (5): Services Employer Services for Domestic Workers The Ministry of Human Resources & Emiratisation provides all services related to domestic workers. To learn more and obtain domestic worker services, Scan the QR code: 17 Employer’s journey to apply for a New Domestic Worker’s Work Permit Application Channels: • Domestic Worker Recruitment Offices. • MOHRE Smart App. • Domestic Worker Services on the Ministry’s Website. • TawseelEmployers can apply for a new domestic worker’s work permit (new entry permit) through: 18 In the event of a dispute or disagreement between the employer and the recruitment office, which cannot be amicably resolved, a complaint against the recruitment office shall be filed with the Ministry of Human Resources & Emiratisation, through the following channels: In the event of employing an unlicensed domestic worker or recruiting him/her from an unauthorised entity, the employer may face the following consequences:How to File a Complaint Against Recruitment Offices with the Ministry of Human Resources & Emiratisation:Filing a complaint against a Domestic Worker Recruitment Office Consequences of recruitment by unauthorised entities Labour Claims and Advisory Call Centre via 80084Ministry’s website Smart application (MOHRE UAE) The employer may be subject to legal accountability for employing and illegally harbouring a violating domestic worker. Family members may be at risk due to infectious diseases the domestic worker may suffer. The domestic worker may have a criminal record and illegally stays in the country. The employer may be exposed to fraudulent activities by dealing with unauthorised recruitment entities. 20