Federal Decree-Law No. (33) of 2021 Regarding the Regulation of Employment Relationships and its amendments Cabinet Resolution No. (1) Of 2022 On The Implementation Of Federal Decree-law No. (33) Of 2021 Regarding The Regulation Of Labour Relations Federal Decree-Law No. (33) of 2021 Regarding the Regulation of Employment Relationships and its amendments Contents 7 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 14 15 15 16 16 18 18 19 20 20 21 21 22 22 22 22 23 24 24 24 24 Deﬁnitions Objectives Scope of Application Equality and Non-discrimination Employment of Juveniles Recruitment and Employment of Workers Work Patterns Employment Contract Probationary Period Non-competition Clause Outsourcing specific tasks of an employer to another employer Assigning the Worker to Another Job Employer’s Obligations Prohibition of Forced Labour and Other Prohibitions 26 27 27 28 28 Maternity Leave Sick Leave Various Leaves Unpaid Leave Absence after Leave Article (30) Article (31) Article (32) Article (33) Article (34) Worker’s Entitlements in the Event of his Death Worker’s Obligations Working Hours Consecutive Working Hours Overtime Excluded Workers Categories Weekend Defining the Amount or Type of Wage and its Payment Method of Calculating the Wages of Workers on Piecework Basis Transferring the Worker with a Monthly Wage to other Categories Cases of Deduction or Withhold from the Worker’s Wage Enabling the Workers to Carry Out Their Work Minimum Wage Public Holidays and Employment fo Workers Therein Annual Leave Article (1) Article (2) Article (3) Article (4) Article (5) Article (6) Article (7) Article (8) Article (9) Article (10) Article (11) Article (12) Article (13) Article (14) Article (15) Article (16) Article (17) Article (18) Article (19) Article (20) Article (21) Article (22) Article (23) Article (24) Article (25) Article (26) Article (27) Article (28) Article (29)Federal Decree-Law No. (33) of 2021 28 Validity of Notice Period in case of Termination of the Contract during LeaveArticle (35)29 Care, Safety and Professionalism Compensation for Work Injuries and Occupational Diseases Cases of the Worker’s Non-entitlement to Work Injury Compensation Disciplinary Sanctions Article (36) 29 30 30 Article (37) Article (38) Article (39) 31 Temporary Suspension from Work Some Rules for Imposing Disciplinary Sanctions Employment Contract Termination Cases Employment Contract Termination Notice Article (40) 31 31 32 Article (41) Article (42) Article (43) 33 Cases of the Worker’s Dismissal without Notice Cases where the Worker quits Work without Notice Termination of Service Due to Medical Unfitness Illegitimate Termination of the Worker’s Service Article (44) 34 34 34 Article (45) Article (46) Article (47) 35 Continuity of Employment Contracts Transfer of the Worker after Expiry of the Employment Contract Unlawful Absence from Work End of Service Benefits for Full-Time Workers Article (48) 35 35 36 Article (49) Article (50) Article (51) 36 End of Service Benefits for Workers in Other Work Patterns Paying the Workers’ Entitlements at the End of the Contract Term Individual Labour Disputes Exemption from Judicial Fees Article (52) 36 37 38 Article (53) Article (54) Article (55) 38 Collective Labour Disputes Work Inspection Penalties Final Provisions Article (56) 38 39-40 41 Article (57) Article (58-64) Article (65) 42 Approved Language Calculation of Periods and Dates Adjustment of Situations Grievance against the Ministry’s Resolutions Article (66) 42 42 43 Article (67) Article (68) Article (69) Powers of the Cabinet 43 Article (70) 44 The Ministry’s Powers Implementing Regulation Abrogation Publication and Enforcement of the Decree-Law Article (71) 44 44 45 Article (72) Article (73) Article (74) 4 5 Federal Decree-Law No. (33) of 2021 Regarding the Regulation of Employment Relationships We, Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan - President of the United Arab Emirates State After reviewing the Constitution; • Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 regarding the Competencies of Ministries and Powers of Ministers and its amendments; • Federal Law No. (6) of 1973 regarding the Entry and Residence of Foreigners and its amendments; • Federal Law No. (8) of 1980 regarding the Regulation of Employment Relationships and its amendments; • Federal Law No. (3) of 1987 promulgating the Penal Code and its amendments; • Federal Law No. (10) of 1992 promulgating the Law of Evidence in Civil Transactions and its amendments; • Federal Law No. (11) of 1992 regarding Civil Procedures and its amendments; • Federal Law No. (35) of 1992 promulgating the Criminal Procedural Law and its amendments; • Federal Law No. (7) of 1999 promulgating the Pensions and Social Security Law and its amendments; • Federal Law No. (29) of 2006 regarding the Rights of People with Disabilities and its amendments; • Federal Decree-Law No. (2) of 2015 regarding Combating Discrimination and Hatred and its amendments; • Federal Law No. (13) of 2016 regarding Judicial Fees before the Federal Courts; • Federal Law No. (14) of 2016 regarding Violations and Administrative Penalties in the Federal Government; • Federal Law No. (13) of 2020 regarding Public Health; • Based on the proposal of the Minister of Human Resources and Emiratisation, and the approval of the Cabinet; Issued the following Decree-Law:►/T_he Cabinet Companies, institutions, establishments or any other entities wholly owned by individuals or in partnership with federal or local government, companies and institutions wholly owned by the federal or local government, unless the laws of their establishment stipulate that they shall be subject to the provisions of another law. Every economic, technical, industrial, commercial unit or other categories approved in the State, employing workers and aiming at producing goods, marketing them or providing services and licensed by the competent authorities. Every natural or legal person, who employs one or more workers in return for a wage. Every natural person authorised by the Ministry to work for one of the licensed establishments in the State, under supervision and direction of the employer. Every person who has reached ﬁfteen years old but has not yet exceeded eighteen years old. Every human, intellectual, technical or physical eﬀort performed according to diﬀerent types of work. A document issued by the Ministry, according to which a natural person is allowed to work for the licensed establishment.In the application of the provisions hereof, the following terms and expressions shall have the meanings assigned to each of them, unless the context requires otherwise:►Deﬁnitions United Arab Emirates. Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation. Minister of Human Resources and Emiratisation.Article (1) Private Sector :Minister :Ministry :State : Establishment : Employer : Worker : Juvenile : Work : Work Permit : 6 7 Every agreement concluded between the employer and worker, under which the latter is committed to working for the service of the employer and under its supervision and guidance, in consideration of a wage payable by the employer, in accordance with the standard contract forms deﬁned by the Implementing Regulation hereof.Employment Contract : /T_he period that may be required by the employer, which enables the latter to evaluate the performance of the worker and allows the worker to become familiar with his job duties and the work environment, according to which the employment contract is either continued or terminated as per the provisions hereof.Probationary Period : /T_he notice period speciﬁed in the employment contract, which requires both parties to the contract to abide by it in case either of them wishes to terminate the employment contract.Notice Period : /T_he wage stipulated in the employment contract, which is paid to the worker in consideration of his work under the employment contract, on a monthly, weekly, daily, hourly or piecework basis, and which does not include any other allowances or beneﬁts in-kind.Basic Wage : /T_he basic wage, in addition to the cash allowances and beneﬁts in-kind allocated to the worker under the employment contract or this Decree-Law, and which may include: beneﬁts in-kind that the employer shall grant to the worker or their cash equivalent, if allocated as part of the wage in the employment contract or the establishment’s by-laws; the allowances that the worker is entitled to obtain in return for his eﬀort, the risks he is exposed to while performing his work or for any other reasons; or the allowances granted to meet the cost of living, a percentage of sales, or a percentage of the proﬁts paid for what the worker markets, produces or collects.Wage : /T_he oﬃcial working day deﬁned by the implementing resolutions of this Decree-Law.Working Day : /T_he work location agreed upon in the employment contract, or in which the worker undertakes the agreed tasks and services for the employer.Workplace :Uninterrupted service with the same employer or its legal successor, from the date of commencement of work.Continuous Service : Being exposed to one of the occupational diseases speciﬁed in the table issued by a resolution of the Cabinet, or any other injuries arising therefrom, due to or occurring in the course of work. Any injury should be considered a work injury if it is proven that the accident happened to the worker during the period of his commute to and from work, without interruption or deviation from the normal route.Work Injury : Any federal or local government entity concerned with health aﬀairs or any private health establishment licensed to provide health services in the State.Medical Entity : Every dispute arising between an employer and worker alone, whose subject is related to this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation and the resolutions issued for its implementation.Individual Labour Disputes : Every dispute arising between an employer and its workers, whose subject is related to a common interest of all workers or a group of them.Collective Labour Disputes :Spouse, sons and daughters. Worker’s Family :Each worker receiving a daily wage. Day Worker : 8 9 1./T_he provisions hereof shall apply to all establishments, employers and workers in the UAE private sector. 2./T_he following categories shall not be subject to the provisions hereof a.Employees of federal and local government entities; b.Employees of the armed forces, police and security; and c.Domestic workers. 3./T_he Cabinet may, upon the Minister’s proposal, exclude any category from being subject to all or some of the provisions hereof and specify the legislation to be applied thereto.►Scope of ApplicationArticle (3) /T_his Decree-Law is intended to achieve the following: 1.Ensuring the eﬃciency of the UAE labour market by supporting the attraction and retention of future skills and talents and providing an attractive business environment for employers, with the aim of enabling both parties to contribute to the achievement of the UAE’s national development goals; 2.Regulating employment relationships and deﬁning the rights and obligations of the parties to this legal relationship in a balanced manner; 3.Enhancing the ﬂexibility and sustainability of the UAE labour market through ensuring the protection of the parties to the employment relationship, its developments and the exceptional circumstances that they may face and would thereby aﬀect such relationship; 4.Improving and developing the capabilities and skills of workers in the private sector, in a manner that enhances the eﬃciency and productivity of the workforce in the UAE labour market; and 5.Providing protection to both parties to the employment relationship and enabling them to obtain their rights within the framework hereof.►ObjectivesArticle (2) 1.It is not permissible to employ any person under the age of ﬁfteen years old. 2./T_he following conditions are required to employ a juvenile: a.Written consent of the juvenile’s guardian or custodian. b.A certiﬁcate issued by the medical entity proving the health ﬁtness of the juvenile to undertake the required work. c./T_he actual working hours shall not exceed six hours per day and shall include one break or more, which shall not be less than one hour in total, and this period(s) shall be deﬁned, so that the juvenile does not work for more than four consecutive hours. d./T_he juvenile shall not work between 7 pm and 7 am. e./T_he juvenile shall not be employed in dangerous or arduous works, or in works which, by their nature, are likely to harm his health, safety or morals and which are deﬁned by a resolution of the Minister in coordination with the concerned authorities. f./T_he juvenile shall not work overtime, be kept in the workplace after the prescribed hours or work on weekends or oﬃcial holidays. 3./T_he Implementing Regulation hereof shall specify the juvenile employment, the procedures to which the employer is committed, the works in which the employment of the juvenile is prohibited and the rules for excluding the entities that aim at training and qualifying juveniles professionally, including charitable, educational and training institutions, from some provisions of this Article.1.Any discrimination on the basis of race, colour, sex, religion, national or social origin or disability which would have the eﬀect of nullifying or impairing equality of opportunity, or prejudicing equal treatment in the employment, the maintenance of a job and the enjoyment of its beneﬁts, is prohibited. Employers are prohibited to discriminate against workers in jobs involving similar tasks. 2.Rules and regulations that aim to enhance the participation of UAE citizens in the labour market shall not constitute discrimination. 3.Without prejudice to the rights established for working women stipulated herein, all provisions regulating the employment of workers without discrimination, shall apply to working women. 4.A woman is granted a wage equal to the wages of a man if she performs the same work, or an alternative work of equal value. By a resolution of the Cabinet, upon the Minister’s proposal, the procedures, terms and standards necessary for evaluating work of equal value shall be issued.►Equality and Non-discriminationArticle (4) ►Employment of JuvenilesArticle (5) 10 11 1.It is not permissible to undertake work in the UAE and the employer may not recruit or employ any worker, except after obtaining a work permit from the Ministry as per the provisions of this Decree-Law and its Implementing Regulation. 2./T_he Implementing Regulation hereof shall specify the terms, conditions, types of work permits and procedures for granting, renewing and cancelling the same. 3.It is not permissible to undertake the activity of employment or mediation to recruit or employ workers, except with a licence from the Ministry, in accordance with the conditions and procedures speciﬁed in the Implementing Regulation hereof. 4./T_he employer is prohibited from charging the worker for the fees and costs of recruitment and employment or collecting them from him, whether directly or indirectly. 5./T_he Minister, in coordination with the concerned entities in the State, shall issue the resolutions regulating jobs, in which the recruitment and employment of workers are prohibited, as well as the rules of the same.►Recruitment and Employment of WorkersArticle (6) 1./T_he patterns of work to be contracted upon shall be in line with the following: a.Full time; which means working for one employer for full daily working hours throughout the working days. b.Part time; which means working for one or more employers for a speciﬁed number of working hours or days designated for work. c.Temporary work; which is work whose execution requires a speciﬁc period, or is based on a certain task and is ended by its completion. d.Flexible work; which is work whose hours or working days change according to the work load, as well as the economic and operational variables of the employer. /T_he worker may work for the employer at variable times according to the work conditions and requirements. e.Any other patterns of work speciﬁed by the Implementing Regulation hereof. 2./T_he Implementing Regulation speciﬁes the conditions and rules of the work patterns and the obligations of both the worker and employer, according to each pattern.►Work PatternsArticle (7)1./T_he employer shall conclude an employment contract with the worker, according to the agreed work pattern. /T_he contract shall be made in two copies; one copy shall be kept by the employer and the other shall be handed over to the worker, as per the forms speciﬁed by the Implementing Regulation hereof. 2./T_he worker or his representative may prove by all possible means of proof the employment contract, the amount of the wage and any of the rights he is entitled to receive under the provisions of this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation and the resolutions issued for its implementation. 3.Contract of employment shall be concluded for a speciﬁed period of time, subject to renewal, in accordance with the agreement of both parties. * 4.In case of extending or renewing the contract, the new term(s) shall be considered an extension of the original term and shall be added to it while calculating the worker’s continuous term of service. 5.If both parties continue to implement the contract after the expiry of its original term or the completion of the agreed work without an express agreement, the original contract is considered implicitly extended as per the same conditions set forth therein. 6.Subject to Clause (3) of this Article, the Implementing Regulation hereof shall specify the forms of employment contracts according to the approved skill levels and the provisions for changing the contract from one work pattern to another, and register them at the Ministry.Article (8) ►Employment Contract • In accordance with Federal Decree-Law No. (14) of 2022 regarding amending some provisions of Federal Decree Law No. (33) of 2021 Regarding the Regulation of Employment Relations 12 13 Article (9) ►Probationary Period 1./T_he employer may appoint the worker under a probationary period not exceeding (6) six months from the date of commencement of work. /T_he employer may terminate the service of the worker during this period after notifying the latter of the same in writing fourteen (14) days at least before the date speciﬁed for the termination of service. 2.It is not permissible to appoint a worker under probationary period more than once at one employer, and if the worker successfully passes the probationary period and continues to work, the contract shall become valid according to the agreed terms. /T_his period shall be counted within the term of service. 3.If the worker wishes to move during the probationary period, to work for another employer in the State, he shall notify the original employer of the same in writing within not less than one month from the date of his wish to terminate the contract. /T_hen, the new employer shall compensate the original employer for the costs of recruitment or contracting with the worker, unless otherwise agreed upon. 4.If the foreign worker wishes to terminate the employment contract during the probationary period, to leave the State, he shall notify the employer of the same in writing not less than fourteen (14) days from the date speciﬁed for the termination of the contract. If he wishes to return to the State and obtain a new work permit within (3) three months from the date of departure, the new employer shall pay the compensation stipulated in Clause (3) of this Article, unless in case of an agreement between the worker and the original employer to the contrary. 5.If either party terminates the employment contract without taking into consideration the provisions of this Article, it shall pay to the other party compensation equal to the worker’s wages for the notice period or the remaining period of the notice period. 6.If the foreign worker leaves the State without abiding by the provisions of this Article, he shall not be granted a work permit to work in the State for one year from the date of leaving the State. 7./T_he Ministry may exclude some job categories, skill levels or workers from the condition of not granting a work permit, stipulated in Clauses (4) and (6) of this Article, in accordance with the rules and procedures speciﬁed by the Implementing Regulation hereof.Article (10) ►Non-competition Clause Article (11) ►Outsourcing Speciﬁc Tasks of an Employer to Another Employer1.If the work assigned to the worker allows him to gain knowledge of the employer’s clients or have access to its work secrets, the employer may require that the worker under the employment contract shall not, after the expiry of the contract, compete with the employer or be engaged in any competing project in the same sector, provided that the requirement is speciﬁed, in terms of time, place and type of work, to the extent necessary to protect the legitimate business interests. /T_he non-competition period shall not be more than two years from the expiry date of the contract. 2./T_his requirement shall be nulliﬁed if the employer terminates the employment contract in violation of the provisions hereof. 3./T_he claim ﬁled by the employer for the worker’s violation of the provisions of this Article shall not be heard if one year has passed from the date of discovering the violation. 4./T_he Implementing Regulation hereof deﬁnes the provisions regulating this Article, skill levels or occupations that may be excluded from the provision of Clause (1) of this Article, in accordance with the conditions and rules speciﬁed by the Regulation. /T_he employer may outsource and assign the performance of any of its original works or part thereof to another employer and the latter shall be solely liable in this case for the rights of his workers who are undertaking this work, which accrue to them in accordance with the provisions hereof, unless otherwise agreed by both parties. 14 15 Article (12) Article (13)►Assigning the Worker to Another Job ►Employer’s Obligations1./T_he worker may not be assigned to undertake work that is fundamentally diﬀerent from the work agreed upon in the employment contract, unless it is necessary in order to prevent the occurrence of an accident or to rectify the resulting damages, provided that the assignment is temporary and in accordance with what is speciﬁed in the Implementing Regulation hereof. 2.In cases other than those mentioned in Clause (1) of this Article, the employer may assign the worker to undertake work not agreed upon in the employment contract, provided that the worker provides his consent in writing. 3.If the worker has to change his place of residence in order to be able to undertake work that is diﬀerent from the work agreed upon in the employment contract, the employer shall bear all the ﬁnancial costs arising therefrom, including the costs of the worker’s relocation and residence. /T_he employer shall comply with the following: 1.Maintaining the workers’ ﬁles and records as per the conditions, rules and procedures issued by a resolution of the Ministry, provided that the period of keeping the worker’s ﬁle shall not be less than two years after the date of the worker’s end of service. 2.Not withholding the oﬃcial documents of the worker or forcing him to leave the State at the end of the employment relationship. 3.Providing rules regarding the organisation of work, such as the regulation of work instructions, penalties, promotions, rewards and other by-laws and regulations, according to the rules speciﬁed by the Implementing Regulation hereof. 4.Providing the worker with proper accommodation licensed by the competent authorities in accordance with the rules, conditions and standards in force in the State, or paying to him an accommodation allowance in cash or including it in the wage. 5.Investing in the development of the skills of workers working for its service and providing the minimum amount of training, qualiﬁcation and empowerment tools and programmes as per the provisions of this Decree-Law and its Implementing Regulation. 6.Providing the necessary means of prevention to protect workers from the risks of occupational diseases and injuries that may occur during work, ensuring the provision of regulations on guidance and awareness, providing appropriate training for workers to avoid such risks, conducting periodic evaluation to ensure that all parties to the employment relationship comply with and meet the requirements of health and occupational security and safety, in accordance with the provisions of this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation and the legislation in force in this regard.7.Taking the necessary actions to ensure that the worker is aware of his rights and obligations at work, according to the tools and methods appropriate to the nature of the work and the workers therein. 8.Bearing the costs of the worker’s medical care in accordance with the legislation in force in the State. 9.Bearing the expenses of insurances, contributions and guarantees deﬁned by the legislation in force. 10.Not allowing the worker to work for others, except in accordance with the provisions hereof. 11.Giving the worker, as per his request and upon expiry of the employment contract, a certiﬁcate of experience, without fees, indicating the date of his commencement of work, the date of its expiry, his entire service term, job title or type of work he was performing, the last wage he was receiving and the reason for the termination of the employment contract, provided that the certiﬁcate does not include anything that may harm the worker’s reputation or limit his chances of ﬁnding new job opportunities. 12.Bearing the repatriation expenses of the worker to his place of recruitment or any other place that both parties had agreed upon, unless he has already joined the service of another employer or the reason for terminating the contract was attributed to the worker, then the latter shall be liable for incurring those expenses. 13.Providing a safe and appropriate work environment. 14.Any other obligations stipulated under the provisions of this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation, resolutions of the Cabinet or any other legislation in force in the State./T_he employer shall comply with the following: 1.Maintaining the workers’ ﬁles and records as per the conditions, rules and procedures issued by a resolution of the Ministry, provided that the period of keeping the worker’s ﬁle shall not be less than two years after the date of the worker’s end of service. 2.Not withholding the oﬃcial documents of the worker or forcing him to leave the State at the end of the employment relationship. 3.Providing rules regarding the organisation of work, such as the regulation of work instructions, penalties, promotions, rewards and other by-laws and regulations, according to the rules speciﬁed by the Implementing Regulation hereof. 4.Providing the worker with proper accommodation licensed by the competent authorities in accordance with the rules, conditions and standards in force in the State, or paying to him an accommodation allowance in cash or including it in the wage. 5.Investing in the development of the skills of workers working for its service and providing the minimum amount of training, qualiﬁcation and empowerment tools and programmes as per the provisions of this Decree-Law and its Implementing Regulation. 6.Providing the necessary means of prevention to protect workers from the risks of occupational diseases and injuries that may occur during work, ensuring the provision of regulations on guidance and awareness, providing appropriate training for workers to avoid such risks, conducting periodic evaluation to ensure that all parties to the employment relationship comply with and meet the requirements of health and occupational security and safety, in accordance with the provisions of this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation and the legislation in force in this regard.7.Taking the necessary actions to ensure that the worker is aware of his rights and obligations at work, according to the tools and methods appropriate to the nature of the work and the workers therein. 8.Bearing the costs of the worker’s medical care in accordance with the legislation in force in the State. 9.Bearing the expenses of insurances, contributions and guarantees deﬁned by the legislation in force. 10.Not allowing the worker to work for others, except in accordance with the provisions hereof. 11.Giving the worker, as per his request and upon expiry of the employment contract, a certiﬁcate of experience, without fees, indicating the date of his commencement of work, the date of its expiry, his entire service term, job title or type of work he was performing, the last wage he was receiving and the reason for the termination of the employment contract, provided that the certiﬁcate does not include anything that may harm the worker’s reputation or limit his chances of ﬁnding new job opportunities. 12.Bearing the repatriation expenses of the worker to his place of recruitment or any other place that both parties had agreed upon, unless he has already joined the service of another employer or the reason for terminating the contract was attributed to the worker, then the latter shall be liable for incurring those expenses. 13.Providing a safe and appropriate work environment. 14.Any other obligations stipulated under the provisions of this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation, resolutions of the Cabinet or any other legislation in force in the State. 16 17 Article (15) ►Worker’s Entitlements in the Event of his DeathArticle (14) ►Prohibition of Forced Labour and Other Prohibitions 1./T_he employer shall not use any means that would oblige or force the worker, threaten him with any penalty to work for it, or compel him to undertake work or provide a service against his will. 2.Sexual harassment, bullying or any verbal, physical or psychological violence committed against the worker by the employer, his superiors at work, colleagues or the persons who work with him, are prohibited. 1.In case of the worker’s death, the employer may hand over to the worker’s family, any wages or ﬁnancial entitlements due to the worker, in addition to the end-of-service beneﬁts the worker is entitled to, in accordance with the provisions of this Decree Law and its Implementing Regulation, within a period not exceeding (10) ten days from the date of death or from the date on which the employer became aware of the death of the worker. 2.Subject to the provision of Clause (1) of this Article, the worker may specify in writing the concerned person from his family to receive his rights in case of his death. 3./T_he employer shall bear all the costs of preparing and transporting the corpse of the deceased worker to his home country or place of residence if his family so requests. 4./T_he Ministry may, in coordination with the concerned authorities, set a mechanism to keep the worker’s entitlements in case of his death if it was not possible to hand them over to his family or those entitled to receive them.Article (16) ►Worker’s Obligations /T_he worker shall abide by the following: 1.Performing the work by himself according to the direction and supervision of the employer or anyone acting on its behalf, and in accordance with the contract, and not outsourcing the work to any worker or any other person. 2.Being committed to good behaviour and morals while undertaking work and adhering to honesty and professional integrity. 3.Preserving the production means and work tools in his custody and maintaining them by taking the necessary actions to preserve them in the places designated for them. 4.Keeping the conﬁdentiality of information and data to which he has access by virtue of his work, not disclosing the work’s secrets and returning the items in his custody to the employer at the end of his service. 5.Not keeping personally any original papers or hard or soft copies of documents related to work secrets without the permission of the employer or its representative. 6.Implementing the occupational safety and health instructions prescribed at the establishment as per the legislation in force or work regulations and instructions. 7.Working during the approved working days and working hours speciﬁed in the employment contract, communicating and responding in an eﬃcient manner to complete the duties assigned to him eﬃciently. 8.Continuously and diligently working to develop his functional and professional skills and enhancing the performance level he provides for the employer. 9.Not working for others, in violation of the provisions hereof and other applicable legislation in this regard. 10.Evacuating the accommodation provided by the employer, within a period not exceeding (30) thirty days from the date of end of his service. However , the worker may stay in the accommodation after the end of the said period, in case of the employer’s approval, and the worker shall bear the cost of stay or as agreed upon in writing with the employer. 11.Any other obligations prescribed under the provisions of this Decree-Law and its Implementing Regulation or any other legislation in force in the State. 18 19 /T_he worker may not work for more than (5) ﬁve consecutive hours without a break or breaks of not less than an hour in total, provided that these periods are not included in the working hours. Working hours and breaks shall be arranged at an establishment working according to shifts or for some job categories, as per their nature, such as ﬁeld jobs, and according to the workers’ classiﬁcation speciﬁed in the Implementing Regulation hereof.Article (18)1./T_he maximum normal working hours for workers shall be (8) eight hours per day or (48) forty-eight hours per week. 2./T_he Cabinet may, based on the Minister’s proposal and in coordination with the concerned authorities, increase or reduce the daily working hours for some economic sectors or some categories of workers, as well as the working hours, break and hours during which it is prohibited to work for certain categories of workers, according to the workers’ classiﬁcation speciﬁed in the Implementing Regulation hereof. 3./T_he periods spent by the worker during the commute between his place of residence and the workplace, shall not be counted in the working hours, except for some categories of workers in accordance with the rules deﬁned in the Implementing Regulation hereof. 4./T_he Implementing Regulation hereof speciﬁes the working hours in Ramadan. 5.If the worker works based on a pattern other than the full-time pattern, the original employer, or any other employer for which the worker works in accordance with the provisions hereof, may not ask the worker to work for it more than the hours agreed upon in the employment contract, except with the written consent of the worker. 6.If the worker wishes to perform his work remotely, whether inside or outside the State, with the approval of the employer, the latter may require speciﬁc working hours.Article (17) ►Working Hours ►Consecutive Working HoursArticle (19) ►Overtime 1./T_he employer may instruct the worker to work overtime over the normal working hours, provided that they do not exceed two hours per day. /T_he worker may not be instructed to work for more than that period, except in accordance with the conditions and rules speciﬁed by the Implementing Regulation hereof. In all cases, the total working hours shall not exceed (144) one hundred and forty four hours every (3) three weeks. 2.If the work conditions necessitate that the worker works for more than the normal working hours, the excess period shall represent overtime, for which the worker shall receive a wage equal to the wage corresponding to the normal working hours, which is calculated according to the basic wage plus an increase of not less than (25 %) twenty ﬁve percent of that wage. 3.If the work conditions require that the worker works overtime between 10 pm and 4 am, the worker shall be entitled, regarding the overtime, to receive the wage prescribed for the normal working hours calculated according to the basic wage plus an increase of not less than (50 %) ﬁfty percent of that wage. /T_he workers working based on shifts shall be excluded from this clause. 4.If the circumstances require that the worker works on the weekend speciﬁed in the employment contract or work regulation, he shall be compensated with another day oﬀ or he shall be paid the wage of that day according to the wage established for normal working days, plus an increase of not less than (50 %) ﬁfty percent of the basic wage for that day. 5.A worker shall not be instructed to work for more than two consecutive weekend days, except for day workers. Article (20) ►Excluded Workers Categories /T_he Implementing Regulation hereof deﬁnes the categories of workers who may be excluded from the provisions stipulated regarding the working hours contained herein. 20 21 1./T_he amount or type of wage shall be speciﬁed in the employment contract, and if it is not speciﬁed, the competent court shall specify it as a labour dispute. 2./T_he employer shall pay the salaries or wages to its workers on their due dates in accordance with the regulations approved in the Ministry, as well as the conditions, rules and procedures speciﬁed by the Implementing Regulation hereof. 3./T_he salaries shall be paid in UAE Dirham and may be paid in another currency if it is agreed upon between both parties in the employment contract.Article (22)/T_he worker shall be granted a paid weekend of not less than one day, according to the employment contract or the work regulation. It is permissible under a resolution of the Cabinet to increase the weekend day stipulated in this Article.Article (21) ►Weekend ►Deﬁning the Amount or Type of Wage and its Payment /T_he daily wage of workers who receive their wages on piecework basis shall be calculated according to the average amount the worker received for the actual working days during the (6) six months preceding the request or claim regarding any issue related to the wage.Article (23) ►Method of Calculating the Wages of Workers on Piecework Basis A worker with a monthly wage may be transferred to the category of day workers or workers hired for a weekly wage, per piecework or hour, if the worker agrees on the same in writing, without prejudice to the rights acquired by the worker during the period he worked on a monthly wage.Article (24) ►Transferring the Worker with a Monthly Wage to other CategoriesArticle (25) ►Cases of Deduction or Withhold from the Worker’s Wage 1.No amount may be deducted or withheld from the worker’s wage except in the following cases: a./T_he redemption of loans granted to the worker, within the maximum limit of the monthly deduction percentage from the worker’s wage stipulated in this Article, after obtaining the worker’s written consent and without any interest. b./T_he redemption of the amounts paid to the worker in excess of his entitlements, provided that the amount deducted does not exceed (20%) twenty percent of the wage. c./T_he amounts deducted for the purposes of calculating the contributions in bonuses, retirement pensions and insurances according to the legislation in force in the State. d./T_he worker’s contributions to the Savings Fund at the establishment or the loans payable to the Fund approved by the Ministry. e.Installments for any social project or any other beneﬁts or services provided by the employer and approved by the Ministry, provided that the worker agrees in writing to participate in the project. f.Amounts deducted from the worker due to violations he commits, according to the regulation of penalties in force at the establishment and approved by the Ministry, provided that they shall not exceed (5%) ﬁve percent of the wage. g.Debts due pursuant to a judgment, without exceeding a quarter of the wage payable to the worker, except for the awarded alimony debt, as more than a quarter of the wage may be deducted. In case of several debts, the amounts to be paid shall be distributed as per the privilege categories. h.Amounts necessary to rectify the damage caused by the worker, as a result of his mistake or violation of the employer’s instructions, which led to the destruction, demolition or loss of tools, machines, products or materials owned by the employer, provided that the deducted amounts do not exceed the wage of (5) ﬁve days per month. It is not permissible to deduct an amount greater than that except with the approval of the competent court. 2.If there are many reasons for deduction or withholding from the wage, in all cases the percentage of deduction and/or withholding may not exceed (50%) ﬁfty percent of the wage. 22 23 Article (26) ►Enabling the Worker to Carry Out their Work 1./T_he wage is paid in exchange for work and the employer shall allow the worker to carry out his work. Otherwise, it shall be obliged to pay the wage agreed upon. 2./T_he Implementing Regulation deﬁnes the procedures for the worker to quit work if he is not allowed to perform the work agreed upon in the employment contract. Article (27) ►Minimum Wage /T_he Cabinet may, upon the proposal of the Minister and in coordination with the concerned authorities, issue a resolution to determine the minimum wage for workers or any category thereof. Article (28) ►Public Holidays and Employment of Workers /T_herein 1./T_he worker shall be entitled to oﬃcial days oﬀ with full pay on public holidays, which are deﬁned by a resolution of the Cabinet. 2.If work conditions require that the worker works during any of the public holidays, the employer shall compensate him with another day oﬀ for each day, on which he works during the holiday, or pay him the wage for that day according to the wage established for the normal working days, plus an increase of not less than (50%) ﬁfty percent of the basic wage for that day. Article (29) ►Annual Leave 1.Without prejudice to the worker’s acquired rights for the period preceding the date of enforcement of the provisions of this Decree-Law, the worker shall be entitled to an annual leave with full wage, of not less than: a./T_hirty days for each year of extended service. b.Two days for each month if his service term is more than six months and less than a year. c.A leave for parts of the last year he spent at work if his service is ended before using his annual leave balance. 2./T_he part-time worker shall be entitled to an annual leave according to the actual working hours the worker spends working for the employer and its period shall be deﬁned in the employment contract, in accordance with what is stipulated in the Implementing Regulation hereof.3./T_he employer may agree to grant the worker a leave from his annual leave balance during the probationary period, while the worker shall reserve his right to be compensated for the remainder of his annual leave balance in case he does not pass the probationary period. 4./T_he worker shall obtain his leave in its entitlement year and the employer may specify the dates of these leaves according to work requirements and in agreement with the worker, or grant them alternately among the establishment’s workers, in order to secure its work progress. /T_he employer shall notify the worker of the speciﬁed date for his leave within a suﬃcient time of not less than a month. 5./T_he worker may, with the approval of his employer and in accordance with the applicable regulations at the establishment, carry forward his annual leave balance or days thereof to the following year. 6./T_he worker shall be entitled to the wage for the period of his annual leave. 7./T_he holidays prescribed by law or by agreement are included in the calculation of the annual leave period if they fall within the annual leave of the worker and they form a part thereof, unless the employment contract or the regulations in force at the establishment provide for anything that is more useful for the worker. 8./T_he employer may not prevent the worker from beneﬁting from his annual leave accrued for more than two years, unless the worker wishes to carry it forward or receive a cash allowance for it, in accordance with the regulations in force at the establishment and the Implementing Regulation hereof. 9./T_he worker shall be entitled to a wage for the accrued leave days if he quits the work before using them, regardless of the leave duration, with respect to the period for which he did not obtain his leave. He shall also be entitled to receive leave wage for parts of the year in proportion to the period he spent in work and it shall be calculated according to the basic wage. 10./T_he Implementing Regulation hereof deﬁnes the rules and conditions for regulating leaves and their compensation.3./T_he employer may agree to grant the worker a leave from his annual leave balance during the probationary period, while the worker shall reserve his right to be compensated for the remainder of his annual leave balance in case he does not pass the probationary period. 4./T_he worker shall obtain his leave in its entitlement year and the employer may specify the dates of these leaves according to work requirements and in agreement with the worker, or grant them alternately among the establishment’s workers, in order to secure its work progress. /T_he employer shall notify the worker of the speciﬁed date for his leave within a suﬃcient time of not less than a month. 5./T_he worker may, with the approval of his employer and in accordance with the applicable regulations at the establishment, carry forward his annual leave balance or days thereof to the following year. 6./T_he worker shall be entitled to the wage for the period of his annual leave. 7./T_he holidays prescribed by law or by agreement are included in the calculation of the annual leave period if they fall within the annual leave of the worker and they form a part thereof, unless the employment contract or the regulations in force at the establishment provide for anything that is more useful for the worker. 8./T_he employer may not prevent the worker from beneﬁting from his annual leave accrued for more than two years, unless the worker wishes to carry it forward or receive a cash allowance for it, in accordance with the regulations in force at the establishment and the Implementing Regulation hereof. 9./T_he worker shall be entitled to a wage for the accrued leave days if he quits the work before using them, regardless of the leave duration, with respect to the period for which he did not obtain his leave. He shall also be entitled to receive leave wage for parts of the year in proportion to the period he spent in work and it shall be calculated according to the basic wage. 10./T_he Implementing Regulation hereof deﬁnes the rules and conditions for regulating leaves and their compensation. 24 25 Article (30) ►Maternity Leave 1./T_he female worker shall be entitled to a maternity leave of (60) sixty days, according to the following: a./T_he ﬁrst (45) forty-ﬁve days with full wage. b./T_he following (15) ﬁfteen days with half wage. 2./T_he female worker may, after using the maternity leave, be absent from work without a wage for a period not exceeding continuous or intermittent (45) forty-ﬁve days, if this absence is due to her sickness or her child’s sickness resulting from pregnancy or childbirth, which does not allow her to return to her work. Such sickness shall be proven by a medical certiﬁcate issued by the medical entity. /T_his period is not included within the service term, for which the female worker is entitled to end of service beneﬁts or the period of contribution in the retirement scheme in accordance with the legislation in force in this regard. 3./T_he female worker shall be entitled to the maternity leave mentioned in Clause (1) of this Article if the delivery took place (6) six months or more after pregnancy, whether the fetus was born dead or alive and then died. 4.If the female worker gives birth to a sick child or a child of determination, whose health condition requires a constant companion, according to a medical report issued by the medical entity, she has the right to a leave of thirty (30) days with full pay starting after the end of the maternity leave and she the right to extend the leave for a period of (30) thirty days without pay. 5./T_he employer shall grant the female worker a maternity leave upon her request at any time, starting from the last day of the month preceding immediately the month, in which she is expected to give birth, and this shall be proven by a certiﬁcate issued by the medical entity. 6.Being on a maternity leave or absent from work as mentioned in this Article shall not prejudice the female worker’s right to obtain the other leaves. 7.If the female worker works for another employer during the period of her leave authorised in this Article, the original employer may deprive her of her wages for the leave period or redeem what he has paid to her. 8.It is not permissible to terminate the service of the female worker or notify her of the same because of the pregnancy, having a maternity leave or her absence from work in accordance with the provisions of this Article. 9.After returning from maternity leave and for a period of not more than (6) six months from the date of delivery, the female worker shall be entitled to one or two breaks per day to breastfeed her child, provided that the two breaks do not exceed an hour. 3./T_he national worker shall be entitled to a sabbatical paid leave to perform the national service, in accordance with the legislation in force in the State. 4.In order to obtain the leaves referred to in this Article, proof of the same shall be provided from the concerned authorities. 5./T_he Implementing Regulation speciﬁes the provisions for granting and regulating the leaves mentioned in this Article.Article (32) ►Various LeavesArticle (31) ►Sick Leave 1.If the worker is infected by a disease not arising from work injury, he shall inform the employer or his representative about his sickness, within a period not exceeding (3) three working days, and submit a medical report on his condition, issued by the medical entity. 2./T_he worker shall not be entitled to a paid sick leave during the probationary period. However, the employer may grant him a sick leave without pay, based on a medical report issued by the medical entity that stipulates the necessity of granting the leave. 3.After the end of the probationary period, the worker may be entitled to a sick leave of not more than (90) ninety continuous or intermittent days per year, provided that it is calculated as follows: a./T_he ﬁrst (15) ﬁfteen days with full pay. b./T_he following (30) thirty days with half pay. c./T_he following period unpaid. 4./T_he worker shall not be entitled to a wage for the sick leave if the sickness resulted from the misconduct of the worker, in accordance with the cases deﬁned by the Implementing Regulation hereof. 5./T_he employer may terminate the worker’s service after ﬁnishing his sick leave referred to in this Article if he is unable to return to his work, provided that the worker receives all his ﬁnancial entitlements in accordance with the provisions of this Decree-Law and its Implementing Regulation. 1./T_he worker shall be entitled to a paid leave in the following cases: a.A bereavement leave of (5) ﬁve days, in case of death of the husband or wife and (3) three days in case of death of the mother, father, son, brother, sister, grandson, grandfather or grandmother, starting from the date of death. b.A parental leave for a period of (5) ﬁve working days, for the worker (either the father or mother), who has a newly born child, in order to take care of his child and the worker is entitled to such leave for a continuous or intermittent period, within (6) six months from the date of the child birth. c.Any other leaves speciﬁed by the Cabinet. 2./T_he worker may be granted a study leave for a period of (10) ten working days per year for the worker who is enrolled or regularly studying at one of the educational institutions approved in the State, in order to sit for exams, provided that the service term at the employer is not less than two years. 3./T_he national worker shall be entitled to a sabbatical paid leave to perform the national service, in accordance with the legislation in force in the State. 4.In order to obtain the leaves referred to in this Article, proof of the same shall be provided from the concerned authorities. 5./T_he Implementing Regulation speciﬁes the provisions for granting and regulating the leaves mentioned in this Article. 26 27 3./T_he national worker shall be entitled to a sabbatical paid leave to perform the national service, in accordance with the legislation in force in the State. 4.In order to obtain the leaves referred to in this Article, proof of the same shall be provided from the concerned authorities. 5./T_he Implementing Regulation speciﬁes the provisions for granting and regulating the leaves mentioned in this Article. Article (33) ►Unpaid Leave 1./T_he worker may, after obtaining the approval of the employer, have an unpaid leave, other than that referred to herein. 2./T_he leave mentioned in this Article shall not be included in the worker’s service term at the employer or in the period of the contribution in the retirement scheme in accordance with the legislation in force in this regard. Article (34) ►Absence after Leave /T_he worker, who does not return directly to his work without a legitimate reason after the end of his leave, shall not be entitled to his wage for the absence period following the leave end. Article (35) ►Validity of Notice Period in case of Termination of the Contract during the Leave If either party to the employment contract wishes to terminate the contract in accordance with the provisions of this Decree-Law and its Implementing Regulation, while the worker is on the leave, the validity of the notice period agreed upon in the employment contract shall not begin, except from the day following the day scheduled for the worker’s return from the leave, unless both parties agree otherwise.Article (36) ►Care, Safety and Professionalism Establishments shall abide by the provisions contained in Federal Law No. (13) of 2020 regarding public health and all resolutions issued for the implementation thereof and any other legislation issued in this regard. /T_he Implementing Regulation hereof deﬁnes the role of the Ministry and the provisions related to the safety, protection and health care of workers. Article (37) ►Compensation for Work Injuries and Occupational Diseases 1.Under a resolution of the Cabinet, based on the Minister’s proposal and in coordination with the concerned authorities, work injuries and occupational diseases, conditions and procedures to be followed in case any of them occur, the obligations of the employer in this regard, the amount of compensation due to the worker in case of permanent full or partial disability, compensation payable to his family in case of his death and the rules for its distribution and amount, shall be deﬁned. 2./T_he employer shall, in case the worker has a work injury or an occupational disease: a.Bear the expenses of the worker’s treatment until he recovers and is able to return to work or proves his disability, in accordance with the conditions, rules and procedures speciﬁed by the Implementing Regulation hereof. b.If the work injury or occupational disease prevents the worker from performing his work, the employer shall pay to the worker an amount equivalent of his full wage throughout the treatment period or for (6) six months, whichever is less. If the treatment period exceeds (6) six months, the worker shall obtain half wage for another (6) six months, or until the worker is cured or his disability or death is proven, whichever is earlier. 3.If the work injury or occupational disease led to the death of the worker, his family shall be entitled to compensation equal to the basic wage of the worker for (24) twenty-four months, provided that the compensation amount is not less than (18,000) eighteen thousand UAE Dirham and not more than (200,000) two hundred thousand UAE Dirham. /T_he compensation amount is calculated according to the basic wage that the worker was receiving before his death and the compensation is distributed among the eligible beneﬁciaries of the deceased worker according to the Implementing Regulation hereof, while preserving the rights of the deceased’s family in the end of service beneﬁts and any other ﬁnancial entitlements payable to the worker.3./T_he national worker shall be entitled to a sabbatical paid leave to perform the national service, in accordance with the legislation in force in the State. 4.In order to obtain the leaves referred to in this Article, proof of the same shall be provided from the concerned authorities. 5./T_he Implementing Regulation speciﬁes the provisions for granting and regulating the leaves mentioned in this Article. 28 29 Article (39) ►Disciplinary SanctionsArticle (38) ►Cases of the Worker’s Non-entitlement to Work Injury Compensation /T_he worker shall not be entitled to work injury compensation if it is proven through the investigations of the competent authorities that any of the following cases takes place: 1./T_he worker deliberately caused injury to himself for any reason. 2./T_he injury took place under the inﬂuence of alcohol, narcotics or other psychotropic substances. 3./T_he injury took place as a result of a deliberate violation of the declared preventive instructions at visible areas in the workplace, as deﬁned by the Implementing Regulation hereof. 4./T_he injury took place as a result of wilful misconduct by the worker. 5./T_he worker refused, without a serious reason, to be examined or follow the treatment speciﬁed by the medical entity. 1./T_he employer or his representative may impose to the worker who violates the provisions of this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation and resolutions issued for its implementation, any of the following penalties: a.Written notice. b.Written warning. c.Deduction of not less than (5) ﬁve days per month from the wage; d.Suspension from work for a period not exceeding (14) fourteen days and non-payment of wage for the suspension days. e.Deprivation from the periodic bonus for a period not exceeding one year, regarding the establishments that adopt the periodic bonus system and the worker is entitled to obtain it according to the provisions of the employment contract or the establishment’s regulations. f.Deprivation of promotion at the establishments having a promotion system for a period not exceeding two years. g.Termination of service while preserving the worker’s right of end of service beneﬁts. 2./T_he Implementing Regulation deﬁnes the conditions, rules and procedures necessary for the imposition of any of the penalties referred to in Clause (1) of this Article and the mechanism of grievance thereof./T_he employment contract is terminated in any of the following cases: 1./T_he written agreement of both parties upon its termination; 2.Expiry of the term speciﬁed in the contract, unless it is extended or renewed as per the provisions hereof. 3.Based on the wish of either party, provided that the provisions hereof regarding termination of the employment contract and the notice period agreed upon in the contract are observed. 4./T_he employer’s death if the subject of the contract is related to its entity. 5./T_he worker’s death or full permanent inability to work, as proven by a certiﬁcate issued by the medical entity. 6.A ﬁnal judgment issued against the worker by a freedom-restricting penalty for a period of not less than (3) three months. 7.Closing the establishment permanently, in accordance with the legislation in force in the State. 8./T_he bankruptcy or insolvency of the employer, or any economic or exceptional reasons that prevent the continuation of the project, in accordance with the conditions, rules and procedures speciﬁed by the Implementing Regulation and the legislation in force in the State. 9./T_he worker’s failure to fulﬁl the conditions for renewing the work permit for any reason beyond the control of the employer.Article (40) ►Temporary Suspension from Work 1./T_he employer may suspend the worker temporarily from work for a period not exceeding (30) thirty days, in order to conduct a disciplinary investigation with him if the investigation interest so requires, along with suspending half the wage during the suspension period. If the investigation concluded keeping the case, non-violation or punishment of the worker by warning, the worker shall be paid the wage that was suspended during the suspension period. 2./T_he employer may temporarily suspend the worker from work when he is accused of committing a crime of assault on oneself, money, or crimes related to breach of honour or trust, until a ﬁnal judgment is issued by the competent judicial authority. His wage shall be suspended for the suspension period. If a judgment is issued for not putting the worker into trial, he was acquitted for absence of felony or the investigation concluded keeping the case due to lack of evidence, he shall be returned to work, along with paying his full suspended wage. Article (41) ►Some Rules for Imposing Disciplinary Sanctions 1.It is not permissible to impose any disciplinary sanction to the worker for an action committed by him outside the workplace unless it is related to work. 2.It is not permissible to impose more than one disciplinary sanction for a single violation, according to the provision of Article (39) hereof. Article (42) ►Employment Contract Termination Cases /T_he employment contract is terminated in any of the following cases: 1./T_he written agreement of both parties upon its termination; 2.Expiry of the term speciﬁed in the contract, unless it is extended or renewed as per the provisions hereof. 3.Based on the wish of either party, provided that the provisions hereof regarding termination of the employment contract and the notice period agreed upon in the contract are observed. 4./T_he employer’s death if the subject of the contract is related to its entity. 5./T_he worker’s death or full permanent inability to work, as proven by a certiﬁcate issued by the medical entity. 6.A ﬁnal judgment issued against the worker by a freedom-restricting penalty for a period of not less than (3) three months. 7.Closing the establishment permanently, in accordance with the legislation in force in the State. 8./T_he bankruptcy or insolvency of the employer, or any economic or exceptional reasons that prevent the continuation of the project, in accordance with the conditions, rules and procedures speciﬁed by the Implementing Regulation and the legislation in force in the State. 9./T_he worker’s failure to fulﬁl the conditions for renewing the work permit for any reason beyond the control of the employer. 30 31 /T_he employment contract is terminated in any of the following cases: 1./T_he written agreement of both parties upon its termination; 2.Expiry of the term speciﬁed in the contract, unless it is extended or renewed as per the provisions hereof. 3.Based on the wish of either party, provided that the provisions hereof regarding termination of the employment contract and the notice period agreed upon in the contract are observed. 4./T_he employer’s death if the subject of the contract is related to its entity. 5./T_he worker’s death or full permanent inability to work, as proven by a certiﬁcate issued by the medical entity. Article (43) ►Employment Contract Termination Notice 1.Either party to the employment contract may terminate the contract for any legitimate reason, provided that the other party is notiﬁed in writing and work shall be performed during the notice period agreed upon in the contract, provided that such period is not less than (30) thirty days and not more than (90) ninety days. 2./T_he employment contract continues to be valid throughout the notice period referred to in this Article and is terminated upon expiry of such period. /T_he worker shall be entitled to his full wage for that period according to the last wage he was obtaining and he shall work during that period if the employer requests the same from him. It may be agreed upon exemption from the notice period condition or reducing its period while preserving all the rights of the worker for the notice period agreed upon in the employment contract, provided that the notice period is the same for both parties unless it serves the interests of the worker. 3./T_he party who did not abide by the notice period shall pay to the other party compensation, which is called notice period allowance, even if the absence of notiﬁcation does not cause damage to the other party and the compensation shall be equal to the worker’s wage for the full notice period or the remaining part thereof. 4./T_he notice period allowance is calculated according to the last wage received by the worker for those who obtain their wages on a monthly, weekly, daily or hourly basis, and according to the average daily wage referred to herein for those who obtain their wages on a piecework basis. 5.If the employment contract is terminated by the employer, the worker shall have the right to be absent during the notice period for one working day without pay per week, in order to search for another job. /T_he worker may specify the day of absence, provided that he notiﬁes the employer of the same (3) three days at least before the absence day.6.A ﬁnal judgment issued against the worker by a freedom-restricting penalty for a period of not less than (3) three months. 7.Closing the establishment permanently, in accordance with the legislation in force in the State. 8./T_he bankruptcy or insolvency of the employer, or any economic or exceptional reasons that prevent the continuation of the project, in accordance with the conditions, rules and procedures speciﬁed by the Implementing Regulation and the legislation in force in the State. 9./T_he worker’s failure to fulﬁl the conditions for renewing the work permit for any reason beyond the control of the employer./T_he employment contract is terminated in any of the following cases: 1./T_he written agreement of both parties upon its termination; 2.Expiry of the term speciﬁed in the contract, unless it is extended or renewed as per the provisions hereof. 3.Based on the wish of either party, provided that the provisions hereof regarding termination of the employment contract and the notice period agreed upon in the contract are observed. 4./T_he employer’s death if the subject of the contract is related to its entity. 5./T_he worker’s death or full permanent inability to work, as proven by a certiﬁcate issued by the medical entity. Article (44) ►Cases of the Worker’s Dismissal without Notice /T_he employer may dismiss the worker without notice after conducting a written investigation with him and the dismissal decision shall be in writing and justiﬁed and the employer or its representative shall hand it over to the worker in any of the following cases: 1.It is proven that the worker impersonated another person, or submitted forged certiﬁcates or documents. 2./T_he worker committed a mistake that resulted in gross physical losses to the employer or he deliberately damaged the properties of the employer and he acknowledged the same, provided that the latter informs the Ministry of the incident within (7) seven working days from the date of being aware of the occurrence of the incident. 3./T_he worker violated the instructions of the establishment’s by-law related to the safety of work and workers or the workplace, provided that they are written and hung in a visible place and the worker is informed of the same. 4./T_he worker did not perform his basic duties according to the employment contract and he continued breaching them despite conducting a written investigation with him for this reason and he is notiﬁed and warned of dismissal twice if this is repeated. 5./T_he worker disclosed one work secret related to industrial or intellectual property, which resulted in losses to the employer, missed opportunity or achieving a personal beneﬁt for the worker. 6./T_he worker is drunk during working hours, is under the inﬂuence of narcotics or psychotropic substances, or commits an action breaching the public morals at the workplace. 7./T_he worker assaults during work, the employer, manager in charge, one of his superiors or colleagues at work, by word, action or any form of assault that is punishable under the legislation in force in the State. 8./T_he worker is absent without a legitimate reason or excuse accepted by the employer for more than (20) twenty intermittent days during one year or more than (7) seven consecutive days. 9./T_he worker exploited his position in an illegal way to obtain personal results and gains. 10./T_he worker joins another establishment without abiding by the rules and procedures prescribed in this regard.6.A ﬁnal judgment issued against the worker by a freedom-restricting penalty for a period of not less than (3) three months. 7.Closing the establishment permanently, in accordance with the legislation in force in the State. 8./T_he bankruptcy or insolvency of the employer, or any economic or exceptional reasons that prevent the continuation of the project, in accordance with the conditions, rules and procedures speciﬁed by the Implementing Regulation and the legislation in force in the State. 9./T_he worker’s failure to fulﬁl the conditions for renewing the work permit for any reason beyond the control of the employer. 32 33 Article (45) ►Cases where the Worker quits Work without Notice /T_he worker may quit work without notice, while retaining his rights upon end of service in any of the following cases: 1./T_he employer’s breach of his obligations towards the worker stipulated in the contract, this Decree-Law or the resolutions issued for its implementation, provided that the worker notiﬁes the Ministry fourteen (14) working days before the date of quitting work and without the employer’s rectiﬁcation and removal of the eﬀects resulting from this breach despite being notiﬁed by the Ministry of the same. 2.It has been proven that the employer or its legal representative assaulted the worker, committed violence or harassment against him at work, provided that he informs the competent authorities and the Ministry within (5) ﬁve working days from the date on which he was able to report. 3.If there is a grave danger at the workplace that threatens the worker’s safety or health, provided that the employer is aware of its existence and does not take any actions that indicate its removal. /T_hen, the Implementing Regulation hereof speciﬁes the rules of the grave danger. 4./T_he employer instructs the worker to perform a work fundamentally diﬀerent from the work agreed upon in the employment contract, without obtaining the worker’s written consent on the same, except for the necessity cases as per the provisions of Article (12) hereof. Article (46) ►Termination of Service Due to Medical Unﬁtness /T_he employer may not terminate the worker’s service due to his lack of health ﬁtness before using the legally accrued leaves. Each agreement to the contrary shall be null and void, even if it is concluded prior to the enforcement of the provisions hereof. Article (47) ►Illegitimate Termination of the Worker’s Service 1./T_he termination of the worker’s service by the employer is unlawful if the termination of the worker’s service is due to ﬁling a serious complaint to the Ministry or ﬁling a lawsuit against the employer, whose validity is proven. 2./T_he employer shall pay fair compensation to the worker estimated by the competent court if it is proven that the termination is unlawful according to Clause (1) of this Article. /T_he amount of compensation shall be deﬁned by taking into account the work type and the amount of damage caused to the worker and his service term. It is required in all cases that the amount of compensation does not exceed the worker’s wage for a period of (3) three months, calculated according to the last wage he was obtaining. 3./T_he provisions of Clause (2) of this Article shall not prejudice the right of the worker to obtain a notice period allowance and end of service beneﬁts payable to him, in accordance with the provisions hereof.Article (48) ►Continuity of Employment Contracts /T_he employment contracts in force shall remain valid in the event of a change in the establishment’s form or legal status. /T_he new employer shall be responsible for implementing the provisions of those contracts, in addition to executing the provisions of this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation and the resolutions issued for its implementation, as of the date of amending the establishment data at the competent authorities. Article (49) ►Transfer of the Worker after Expiry of the Employment Contract /T_he worker may, in case of expiry of the employment contract in accordance with the provisions hereof, move to work for another employer as per the conditions and procedures speciﬁed in the Implementing Regulation hereof. Article (50) ►Unlawful Absence from Work 1.If the foreign worker leaves work, for an illegitimate reason, before the end of the contract term, he shall not be granted another work permit to join another job in the State in accordance with the provisions hereof, for a period of one year from the date of the absence from work. It is also not permissible for any other employer, who is aware of the same, to employ him or keep him in his service during that period. 2./T_he Ministry may exclude some job categories, skill levels or workers from the provision of Clause (1) of this Article, in accordance with the rules and procedures speciﬁed by the Implementing Regulation hereof. 3./T_he employer shall notify the Ministry of the incident of absence from work as per the procedures speciﬁed by the Implementing Regulation hereof. 34 35 Article (52) ►End of Service Beneﬁts for Workers in Other Work Patterns /T_he Implementing Regulation hereof deﬁnes the mechanism for regulating end of service beneﬁts for foreign workers based on work patterns, other than the full-time basis, in a manner that enhances the eﬃciency and attractiveness of the labour market and as required by the interests of both parties to the employment contract.1./T_he national worker shall be entitled to end of service beneﬁts at the end of his service, in accordance with the legislation regulating the pensions and social securities in the State. 2./T_he full-time foreign worker, who completed a year or more in continuous service, shall be entitled to end of service beneﬁts at the end of his service, calculated according to the basic wage as per the following: a.A wage of (21) twenty-one days for each year of the ﬁrst ﬁve years of service; b.A wage of (30) thirty days for each year exceeding such period. 3./T_he foreign worker shall be entitled to a beneﬁt for parts of the year in proportion to the period spent at work, provided that he completed one year of continuous service. 4./T_he unpaid days of absence from work shall not be included in the calculation of the service term. 5.Without prejudice to the legislation regarding the granting of pensions or retirement beneﬁts to workers in some establishments, the end of service beneﬁts shall be calculated according to the last basic wage the worker was entitled to, with respect to those who receive their wages on a monthly, weekly or daily basis and according to the average daily wage stipulated in the provisions hereof for those who receive their wages on a piecework basis. 6.It is required based on the foregoing that the end of service beneﬁts for the foreign worker in its entirety does not exceed two years’ wage. 7./T_he employer may deduct from the end of service beneﬁts any amounts payable under the law or a judgment, in accordance with the conditions and procedures speciﬁed in the Implementing Regulation hereof. 8./T_he Cabinet may, based on the Minister’s proposal and after coordination with the concerned authorities, approve other alternative schemes for the end of service beneﬁts scheme and the issued resolution speciﬁes the conditions, rules and mechanism of contribution in these schemes. Article (53) ►Paying the Workers’ Entitlements at the End of the Contract Term /T_he employer shall pay to the worker, within (14) fourteen days from the end date of the contract term, his wages and all his other entitlements stipulated herein and resolutions issued for its implementation, the contract or the establishment’s by-laws.Article (51) ►End of Service Beneﬁts for Full-Time WorkersArticle (54) * ►Individual Labour Disputes 1.In the event of a dispute between the Employer and the Employee or their beneﬁciaries under the provisions of this Decree-Law, the dispute shall be submitted to the Ministry in order to resolve the dispute amicably. 2./T_he Ministry may render a ﬁnal judgment on any dispute submitted to it if the value of the claim is not more than (50,000) ﬁfty thousand dirhams or if neither party fails to comply with an amicable settlement decision relating to the subject matter, regardless of the value of the claim. 3./T_he Ministry has the authority to resolve the dispute in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (2) of this article, and the decision shall be annotated with a writ of execution in accordance with customary practice. Either party may ﬁle a lawsuit before the competent Court of Appeal for a review of the decision within (15) ﬁfteen working days following notiﬁcation of the decision. Upon ﬁling, the court will schedule a hearing to consider the case within (3) three working days, and the case will be adjudicated within (30) thirty working days. /T_he decision of the Court of Appeal shall constitute a ﬁnal judgment, and an appeal will suspend the implementation of the decision. If an appeal is ﬁled, the execution of the Ministry’s decision described above will be suspended. 4./T_he Ministry shall refer the dispute to the competent court if attempts to reach an amicable settlement within the time limit prescribed in the implementing regulation of this Decree-Law and in cases other than those described in paragraph (2) of this article do not succeed. /T_he referral must be accompanied by a memorandum which summarises the dispute, the parties' arguments, in addition to the Ministry's recommendations. 5./T_he Ministry may obligate the employer to continue to pay the worker's wages for a maximum period of two (2) months, if the dispute results in the worker's wages being withheld in accordance with the implementing regulation of this Decree-Law. 6.Other administrative procedures or measures may be imposed on the establishment if the Minister ﬁnds that the existing individual dispute has the potential to lead to a collective labour dispute that is detrimental to the public interest. 7./T_he competent court must, within (3) three business days, convene a hearing, notify the parties involved, and proceed promptly to adjudicate the application. 8./T_he Court of First Instance will not accept any lawsuit ﬁled by any party in any of the disputes referred to in this article without following the procedures and deadlines speciﬁed therein. 9.All claims concerning any right arising under this Decree-Law shall not be considered after two years of the termination of the employment relationship. * /T_he article is amended in accordance with Federal Decree-Law No. (9) of 2024 revising some provisions of Federal Decree-Law No. (33) of 2021 concerning labour Relations. 36 37 Article (55) ►Exemption from Judicial Fees 1.Labour claims shall be exempted from judicial fees at all stages of litigation and execution, as well as the requests ﬁled by workers or their heirs, whose amounts do not exceed (100,000) one hundred thousand UAE Dirham. 2./T_he Cabinet may, based on the Minister of Justice’s proposal, amend the amount referred to in Clause (1) of this Article by increasing or decreasing it as required. Article (56) ►Collective Labour Disputes 1.If there is a dispute between the employer and all the workers of the establishment or a group of them, and the amicable settlement is not possible, the employer or workers shall submit a complaint to the Ministry as per the rules and procedures speciﬁed by the Implementing Regulation hereof. 2./T_he Minister may impose preventive procedures or measures on the establishment, in order to avoid that the existing collective dispute would cause damage to the public interest. 3./T_he Cabinet may, based on the Minister’s proposal, form one committee or more called (Collective Labour Disputes Committee), so as to consider collective labour disputes that the Ministry is not able to settle amicably. /T_he issued resolution shall deﬁne its formation, duties, work system, mechanism of issuing its resolutions and their execution, as well as other provisions related to the proper work progress of the Committee. Article (57) ►Work Inspection 1./T_he Ministry’s oﬃcials, who are authorised by a resolution of the Minister of Justice in agreement with the Minister, shall have the capacity of law enforcement oﬃcers to prove the violations to the provisions of this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation and the resolutions issued for its implementation. /T_hey shall have the right to enter the relevant establishments, examine violations and write the necessary minutes and records. 2./T_he Implementing Regulation hereof shall specify the procedures for work inspection.1.A ﬁne of at least (100,000) one hundred thousand UAE Dirham and up to (1,000,000) one million UAE Dirham shall be imposed on those who commit the following violations: a.Providing employment to an employee without obtaining a work permit. b.Employing or recruiting an employee and failing to provide him/her with employment. c.Making use of work permits for purposes other than those for which they were issued. d.Closing or ceasing the establishment’s operations without following the necessary procedures for the settlement of employees’ dues in violation of the provisions of this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation, and the decisions issued in implementation thereto. e.Employing or recruiting a juvenile in violation to this Decree-Law. f.Any person who has guardianship or custody over a juvenile and agrees to employ him/her in violation of the provisions of this Decree-Law. 2.A ﬁne of at least of (100,000) one hundred thousand UAE Dirham and up to (1,000,000) one million UAE Dirham shall be imposed on those who commit the following violation: An employer who circumvents the provisions of laws, regulations or decision regulating the labour market and appoints ﬁctitious employees shall be liable for a ﬁne of a minimum of (100,000) one hundred thousand UAE Dirham and a maximum of (1,000,000) one million UAE Dirham. If this results in the employee receiving any beneﬁt or advantage from any ministry, council, fund, authority or any other governmental body that has been granted one or more powers to regulate the labour market or increase the competitiveness of the workforce as a result of the law or decisions issued by the Cabinet, or if the employer helps the employee to evade legislative obligations, the court shall order the employer to reimburse any of the entities listed in this paragraph the value of the ﬁnancial incentives provided to the employee. In addition, the employer may not claim from the employee /T_he value of the ﬁnancial incentives he paid to any of these entities. /T_he penalty stipulated in this Clause shall be multiplied by the number of employees ﬁctitiously appointed. 3.Only the Minister or his representative may initiate criminal proceedings, in the case of a crime speciﬁed in Clause (2) of this Article. 4.In response to the employer’s request, the Ministry may make a settlement regarding the crime stipulated in Clause (2) of this Article, in return for an amount not less than (50%) ﬁfty percent of the minimum value of the ﬁne associated with this crime. Furthermore, the employer must reimburse all ﬁnancial incentives received by ﬁctitiously appointed employees. Once the settlement amount is paid, the criminal case will be closed.* /T_he article is amended in accordance with the Federal Decree-Law No. (9) of 2024 Revising Some Provisions of Federal Decree-Law No. (33) of 2021 Concerning Labour RelationsArticle (59) Any person who commits the following shall be punished by a ﬁne of not less than (20,000) twenty thousand UAE Dirham and not more than (100,000) one hundred thousand UAE Dirham: 1.Submitting false information or documents in order to recruit a foreign worker to the State to work therein. 2.Obstructing or preventing an employee assigned to implement the provisions of this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation and the resolutions issued for its implementation, attempting or trying to prevent him from performing his job, whether by using force, violence or threatening to use it. 3.Disclosing a work secret, to which he has access, by virtue of his job as a public oﬃcer charged with the implementation of the provisions of this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation and the resolutions issued for its implementation, even after quitting work. Article (60) * 1.A ﬁne of at least (100,000) one hundred thousand UAE Dirham and up to (1,000,000) one million UAE Dirham shall be imposed on those who commit the following violations: a.Providing employment to an employee without obtaining a work permit. b.Employing or recruiting an employee and failing to provide him/her with employment. c.Making use of work permits for purposes other than those for which they were issued. d.Closing or ceasing the establishment’s operations without following the necessary procedures for the settlement of employees’ dues in violation of the provisions of this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation, and the decisions issued in implementation thereto. e.Employing or recruiting a juvenile in violation to this Decree-Law. f.Any person who has guardianship or custody over a juvenile and agrees to employ him/her in violation of the provisions of this Decree-Law. 2.A ﬁne of at least of (100,000) one hundred thousand UAE Dirham and up to (1,000,000) one million UAE Dirham shall be imposed on those who commit the following violation: An employer who circumvents the provisions of laws, regulations or decision regulating the labour market and appoints ﬁctitious employees shall be liable for a ﬁne of a minimum of (100,000) one hundred thousand UAE Dirham and a maximum of (1,000,000) one million UAE Dirham. If this results in the employee receiving any beneﬁt or advantage from any ministry, council, fund, authority or any other governmental body that has been granted one or more powers to regulate the labour market or increase the competitiveness of the workforce as a result of the law or decisions issued by the Cabinet, or if the employer helps the employee to evade legislative obligations, the court shall order the employer to reimburse any of the entities listed in this paragraph the value of the ﬁnancial incentives provided to the employee. In addition, the employer may not claim from the employee /T_he value of the ﬁnancial incentives he paid to any of these entities. /T_he penalty stipulated in this Clause shall be multiplied by the number of employees ﬁctitiously appointed. 3.Only the Minister or his representative may initiate criminal proceedings, in the case of a crime speciﬁed in Clause (2) of this Article. 4.In response to the employer’s request, the Ministry may make a settlement regarding the crime stipulated in Clause (2) of this Article, in return for an amount not less than (50%) ﬁfty percent of the minimum value of the ﬁne associated with this crime. Furthermore, the employer must reimburse all ﬁnancial incentives received by ﬁctitiously appointed employees. Once the settlement amount is paid, the criminal case will be closed./T_he imposition of the penalties stipulated herein shall not prejudice any severer penalty stated in any other law.Article (58)►Penalties 38 39 Article (61) Any person who exploits or misuses the electronic powers granted to him to have access to the Ministry’s systems or enables others to do so, which would result in disruption in the work procedures or relations, shall be punished by imprisonment for a period of not less than one year and a ﬁne of not less than (200,000) two hundred thousand UAE Dirham and not more than (1,000,000) one million UAE Dirham, or one of these penalties. Article (62) /T_he ﬁne imposed in accordance with the provisions hereof regarding the employers, would vary according to the multiplicity of workers who committed violations, with a maximum of (10,000,000) ten million UAE Dirham. Article (63) Any person, who violates any other provision of this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation and the resolutions issued for its implementation, shall be punished with a ﬁne of not less than (5,000) ﬁve thousand UAE Dirham and not more than (1,000,000) one million UAE Dirham. Article (64) In case of repeating any of the violations mentioned in this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation and the resolutions issued for its implementation, before the lapse of one year since the perpetrator of a similar violation has been punished, then the perpetrator shall be punished by imprisonment, along with doubling the ﬁne stipulated herein or one of these penalties.1.A ﬁne of at least (100,000) one hundred thousand UAE Dirham and up to (1,000,000) one million UAE Dirham shall be imposed on those who commit the following violations: a.Providing employment to an employee without obtaining a work permit. b.Employing or recruiting an employee and failing to provide him/her with employment. c.Making use of work permits for purposes other than those for which they were issued. d.Closing or ceasing the establishment’s operations without following the necessary procedures for the settlement of employees’ dues in violation of the provisions of this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation, and the decisions issued in implementation thereto. e.Employing or recruiting a juvenile in violation to this Decree-Law. f.Any person who has guardianship or custody over a juvenile and agrees to employ him/her in violation of the provisions of this Decree-Law. 2.A ﬁne of at least of (100,000) one hundred thousand UAE Dirham and up to (1,000,000) one million UAE Dirham shall be imposed on those who commit the following violation: An employer who circumvents the provisions of laws, regulations or decision regulating the labour market and appoints ﬁctitious employees shall be liable for a ﬁne of a minimum of (100,000) one hundred thousand UAE Dirham and a maximum of (1,000,000) one million UAE Dirham. If this results in the employee receiving any beneﬁt or advantage from any ministry, council, fund, authority or any other governmental body that has been granted one or more powers to regulate the labour market or increase the competitiveness of the workforce as a result of the law or decisions issued by the Cabinet, or if the employer helps the employee to evade legislative obligations, the court shall order the employer to reimburse any of the entities listed in this paragraph the value of the ﬁnancial incentives provided to the employee. In addition, the employer may not claim from the employee /T_he value of the ﬁnancial incentives he paid to any of these entities. /T_he penalty stipulated in this Clause shall be multiplied by the number of employees ﬁctitiously appointed. 3.Only the Minister or his representative may initiate criminal proceedings, in the case of a crime speciﬁed in Clause (2) of this Article. 4.In response to the employer’s request, the Ministry may make a settlement regarding the crime stipulated in Clause (2) of this Article, in return for an amount not less than (50%) ﬁfty percent of the minimum value of the ﬁne associated with this crime. Furthermore, the employer must reimburse all ﬁnancial incentives received by ﬁctitiously appointed employees. Once the settlement amount is paid, the criminal case will be closed.1.A ﬁne of at least (100,000) one hundred thousand UAE Dirham and up to (1,000,000) one million UAE Dirham shall be imposed on those who commit the following violations: a.Providing employment to an employee without obtaining a work permit. b.Employing or recruiting an employee and failing to provide him/her with employment. c.Making use of work permits for purposes other than those for which they were issued. d.Closing or ceasing the establishment’s operations without following the necessary procedures for the settlement of employees’ dues in violation of the provisions of this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation, and the decisions issued in implementation thereto. e.Employing or recruiting a juvenile in violation to this Decree-Law. f.Any person who has guardianship or custody over a juvenile and agrees to employ him/her in violation of the provisions of this Decree-Law. 2.A ﬁne of at least of (100,000) one hundred thousand UAE Dirham and up to (1,000,000) one million UAE Dirham shall be imposed on those who commit the following violation: An employer who circumvents the provisions of laws, regulations or decision regulating the labour market and appoints ﬁctitious employees shall be liable for a ﬁne of a minimum of (100,000) one hundred thousand UAE Dirham and a maximum of (1,000,000) one million UAE Dirham. If this results in the employee receiving any beneﬁt or advantage from any ministry, council, fund, authority or any other governmental body that has been granted one or more powers to regulate the labour market or increase the competitiveness of the workforce as a result of the law or decisions issued by the Cabinet, or if the employer helps the employee to evade legislative obligations, the court shall order the employer to reimburse any of the entities listed in this paragraph the value of the ﬁnancial incentives provided to the employee. In addition, the employer may not claim from the employee /T_he value of the ﬁnancial incentives he paid to any of these entities. /T_he penalty stipulated in this Clause shall be multiplied by the number of employees ﬁctitiously appointed. 3.Only the Minister or his representative may initiate criminal proceedings, in the case of a crime speciﬁed in Clause (2) of this Article. 4.In response to the employer’s request, the Ministry may make a settlement regarding the crime stipulated in Clause (2) of this Article, in return for an amount not less than (50%) ﬁfty percent of the minimum value of the ﬁne associated with this crime. Furthermore, the employer must reimburse all ﬁnancial incentives received by ﬁctitiously appointed employees. Once the settlement amount is paid, the criminal case will be closed.Article (65) ►Final Provisions 1./T_he rights stipulated herein shall represent the minimum rights for workers and the provisions hereof shall not prejudice any of the rights granted to the worker under any other legislation, agreement, acknowledgment, regulation or employment contract, which would grant the worker rights that are more useful than the rights established under the provisions hereof. 2./T_he employer or worker may not misapply the provisions of this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation and the resolutions issued for the implementation of its provisions and they may not commit an action that would limit the freedom of others, the freedom of other workers or employers to achieve any interest or viewpoint adopted, which contradicts freedom of work or the competence of the authority concerned with settling the disputes. 3.Each provision contradicting the provisions hereof, even if it was existing prior to its enforcement, shall be deemed null and void, unless it is more beneﬁcial to the worker. Each discharge, reconciliation or waiver of the rights arising for the worker hereunder shall be null and void if it violates its provisions. 4./T_he employer may develop and implement programmes or regulations at the establishment, which are more beneﬁcial to the worker than what is prescribed under the provisions of this Decree-Law and its Implementing Regulation. If these programmes and regulations conﬂict with the provisions hereof, the conditions more useful and beneﬁcial for the worker shall be applied. 5./T_he employer may not review the terms and conditions of the employment contract in force with the worker before the issuance of this Decree-Law, in order to apply the provisions hereof, unless those amendments are intended to achieve a greater advantage and beneﬁt for the worker. /T_he employment contract can be updated after its expiry as per the provisions hereof. 6./T_he employer or worker may terminate the employment contract with an undeﬁned term, which was concluded before the enforcement of this Decree-Law, for a legitimate reason, after notifying the other party in writing for a period of not less than (30) thirty days if the service term is less than (5) ﬁve years, a period of not less than (60) sixty days if the service term is more than (5) ﬁve years and a period of not less than (90) ninety days if the service term is more than (10) ten years. 7./T_he amounts payable to the worker or his family members in accordance with the provisions hereof shall have a concession over all the funds of the employer and they shall be paid immediately after settling the amounts due to the public treasury and the legal alimony ruled to the wife and children. 40 41 Article (66) ►Approved Language 1./T_he Arabic language is the language approved in all records, ﬁles, data, forms and others that are stipulated in this Decree-Law, its Implementing Regulation and the resolutions issued for its implementation. 2./T_he employer shall use the Arabic language in concluding contracts with the workers, in writing and publishing instructions and circulars which it shall issue, provided that there shall be another language, beside the Arabic, which is understood by the non-Arabic speaking worker, taking into account that the text in the other language matches the Arabic text. In case of diﬀerence, the Arabic text shall prevail. Article (67) ►Calculation of Periods and Dates /T_he calculation of the periods and dates stipulated herein shall be based on the Gregorian calendar. /T_he Gregorian year in applying the provisions hereof shall include (365) three hundred and sixty-ﬁve days, while the month represents (30) thirty days. Article (68) ►Adjustment of Situations 1./T_he provisions hereof shall apply to employment contracts of undeﬁned terms, which are concluded in accordance with Federal Law No. (8) of 1980 mentioned above. 2./T_he employers shall adjust their situations and convert employment contracts with undeﬁned terms to ﬁxed-term employment contracts, as per the conditions, rules and procedures contained herein during one year from the date of its enforcement. /T_he Minister may extend this period for other periods as required by the public interest. 3.Subject to the provision of Clause (2) of this Article, the employer may calculate the end of service beneﬁts in accordance with the provisions of the employment contract with an undeﬁned term stated in Federal Law No. (8) of 1980 indicated above.Article (69) ►Grievance against the Ministry’s Resolutions Both parties to the employment relationship may ﬁle a grievance against the resolutions issued by the Ministry in accordance with the procedures speciﬁed in the Implementing Regulation hereof. Article (70) ►Powers of the Cabinet For the purposes hereof, the Cabinet shall be concerned with the following: 1.Approving the conditions, rules and procedures for classifying the establishments subject to the provisions hereof, and the privileges oﬀered for each category of these establishments. 2.Approving the conditions, rules and procedures for classifying the skill levels of workers in the labour market subject to the provisions hereof and the privileges provided for each level. 3.Approving the conditions, rules and procedures for employing the students of accredited educational institutions in the State, in a way that enhances the eﬃciency of the labour market and the competitiveness of workers and allows the employers to beneﬁt from human potentials. 4.Adopting the conditions and procedures for employing persons with disabilities (people of determination) in the State in the categories appropriate for them and their physical, technical and intellectual capabilities, as well as deﬁning their rights, duties and privileges provided for them, in a way that contributes to empowering this category, allowing them to participate in the development process and motivating the employers to employ them and provide all means of support and empowerment for them. 5.Approving policies, legislation and regulations that organise the labour market in the State, enhancing the participation of State nationals in the labour market and motivating the employers to solicit and employ nationals. 6.Issuing resolutions that would limit the repercussions of any general exceptional circumstances faced by the State in the work sector in the State. 7.Changing the periods, percentages, or values mentioned herein, according to the variables and needs of the labour market and what is required by the public interest. 8.Deﬁning the fees necessary to implement the provisions of this Decree-Law and its Implementing Regulation. 42 43 Article (71) ►/T_he Ministry’s Powers For the purposes hereof, the Ministry shall be concerned with the following: 1.Proposing the policies, strategies and legislation for the following: a.Encouraging and motivating the establishments to invest in training and empowerment of workers, as well as raising their level of skill, eﬃciency and productivity. b.Adopting modern and technological means and soliciting the best competencies according to the requirements of the labour market in the State to increase productivity. c.Training the students of public and higher education institutions accredited in the State. 2.Establishing uniﬁed forms for the regulations of employment relationships at the establishments and issuing rules and mechanisms for their adoption, in order to serve the interest of the worker and employer. Article (72) ►Implementing Regulation 1. /T_he Cabinet, based on the Minister’s proposal, issues the Implementing Regulation for the provisions hereof. Article (73) ►Abrogation 1.Federal Law No. (8) of 1980 regulating employment relationships shall be abrogated. 2.Each provision that violates or contradicts the provisions hereof shall be abrogated. 3./T_he resolutions, regulations and rules in force prior to the enforcement of the provisions hereof shall remain in force, in a way not contradicting its provisions, until they are replaced in accordance with the provisions hereof.Article (74) ►Publication and Enforcement of the Decree-Law /T_his Decree-Law shall be published in the Oﬃcial Gazette and shall be enforced as of 2 February 2022. His Highness Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan President of the United Arab Emirates State Issued by us at the Presidential Palace in Abu Dhabi: On: 13 Safar 1443 AH Corresponding to: 20 September 2021 AD 44 45 Cabinet Resolution No. (1) Of 2022 On The Implementation Of Federal Decree-law No. (33) Of 2021 Regarding The Regulation Of Employment Relationships Contents 51 51 51 52 52 53 54 55 55 57 58 58 59 59 60 61 61 62 62 63 63 64 66 67 68 68 69 69 70 Deﬁnitions Classification of Establishments Classification of Workers Process for the Employment of Juveniles Work Types Types of Work Permits Conditions, Rules and Procedures for Issuing, Renewing and Cancelling Work Permits Freelance Activities of Recruitment Agencies Employment Contract Issuance of New Work Permits after the Termination of an Employment Contract during Probationary Period Rules for Non-Competition Clause Assigning the Worker to Another Job Rules Regarding the Organisation of Work Working Hours Wages Failure to Enable the Worker to Carry Out their Work Annual Leave for Part-time Workers Carrying Forward Annual Leaves or Receiving Cash Allowance in Lieu Thereof Non-entitlement to Wages during Sick Leave Resulting from Worker’s Misconduct Various Leaves Safety, Protection and Health Care of Workers Work Injuries Rules for Imposing Disciplinary Sanctions on Workers Case of Employment Contract Termination on Account of Employer’s Bankruptcy or Insolvency Rules on Grave Danger Transfer of Workers Rules for Reporting Work Abandonment Rules for Deductions from End of Service Benefits of Workers Article (1) Article (2) Article (3) Article (4) Article (5) Article (6) Article (7) Article (8) Article (9) Article (10) Article (11) Article (12) Article (13) Article (14) Article (15) Article (16) Article (17) Article (18) Article (19) Article (20) Article (21) Article (22) Article (23) Article (24) Article (25) Article (26) Article (27) Article (28) Article (29)Cabinet Resolution No. (1) Of 2022 73 Emergency Circumstances Issuing Decisions Abrogations Publication Article (36) 74 74 74 Article (37) Article (38) Article (39)70 71 71 72 73 End of Service Benefits for Workers in other Types of Employment Individual Labour Disputes Collective Labour Disputes Work Inspection Procedures Administrative Penalties Article (30) Article (31) Article (32) Article (33) Article (34) 73 Procedures for Grievance Against the Ministry’s Resolutions Article (35) 48 49 Cabinet Resolution No. (1) Of 2022 On /T_he Implementation Of Federal Decree-law No. (33) Of 2021 Regarding /T_he Regulation Of Employment Relationships After reviewing the Constitution; • And Federal Law No. (1) of 1972 regarding the Competencies of Ministries and Powers of Ministers, and its amendments; • And Federal Decree-Law No. (33) of 2021 Regarding the Regulation of Employment Relationships; • And Federal Decree-Law No. (47) of 2021 Regarding the United Arab Emirates National Employment Standards; • And based on the proposal of the Minister of Human Resources and Emiratisation, and the approval of the Cabinet, has decided the following:►/T_he Cabinet/T_he same deﬁnitions set out in the Decree-Law shall apply hereto. In addition, the following terms and expressions shall have the meanings assigned to each, unless the context requires otherwise:►DeﬁnitionsArticle (1) ►Classiﬁcation of Establishments Subject to the provisions of Clause (1) of Article (70) of the Decree-Law: 1.Establishments shall be classiﬁed according to criteria that include their economic activity, the number of workers employed, the cultural and demographic diversity of workers, the compliance with relevant Legal Regulations and the establishment support to the implementation of the government objectives related to Emiratisation, training and skills development. 2./T_he Cabinet shall, based on the Minister’s proposal, issue the necessary resolutions for the classiﬁcation of establishments and the privileges granted to each category of establishment in a manner that enhances the competitiveness of the labour market. ►Classiﬁcation of WorkersArticle (3) Subject to the provisions of Clause (2) of Article (70) of the Decree-Law: 1.Workers governed by the provisions of the Decree-Law shall be classiﬁed into categories according to criteria that include skill, educational qualiﬁcations, productivity, professional or salary levels, according to residency status. 2./T_he Cabinet shall, based on the Minister’s proposal, issue the necessary resolutions for the classiﬁcation of the skill levels of workers in the labour market and the privileges granted to each level for the purpose of enhancing labour market productivity.• Decree-Law : • Legal Regulations :Federal Decree-Law No. (33) of 2021 Regarding the Regulation of Labour Relations. /T_he resolutions, guidelines and circulars relate to the work of the Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation. 50 51 1.Subject to the provisions of Article (5) of the Decree-Law, the employment of juveniles is prohibited in the following professions: a.Work in hazardous or harmful industries. b.Occupations, which by their nature or the circumstances in which they are carried out, are likely to jeopardise their health and safety. 2.A decree of the Minister, in consultation with the concerned authorities, shall determine what constitutes dangerous work or arduous work or work which by its nature is detrimental to the health, safety or morals of juveniles. 3./T_he employer of the juvenile shall comply with the following procedures: a.Keeping a special record of juveniles, including the name and age of the juvenile, the full name and contact details of their guardian or custodian, the place of residence of the juvenile and their custodian, the date of their employment and the work for which they are employed. b.Insuring the juvenile like regular workers. c.Training the juvenile on occupational health and safety standards. d.Ensuring the visibility of workplace regulations relating to the employment of juveniles. 4.Charitable, educational and training institutions and other entities that have the objective of professionally training and qualifying juveniles shall be exempted from some provisions of Article (5) of the Decree-Law and the provisions of this Article, pursuant to the following rules: a./T_he institution shall be registered with the government authorities in charge thereof. b.Its actual and registered objective shall be professional qualiﬁcation or training or charity, educational or volunteer work.►Process for the Employment of JuvenilesArticle (4) ►Work TypesArticle (5) 1.Subject to the provisions of Article (7) of the Decree-Law, the contract between the worker and employer shall be according to any of the work types set out therein, in addition to the following types: a.Remote work: All or part of the work is performed outside the workplace, with electronic communication between the worker and the employer in lieu of physical presence, whether the work is part-time or full-time. b.Job sharing: /T_he tasks and duties are divided among more than one worker as agreed upon in advance, with the corresponding wage for each worker being proportional to the agreed-upon tasks. /T_hey shall be treated according to the regulations of part-time work. 2./T_he Ministry may set out other work types, according to the needs of the labour market. 3.Subject to the provisions of the Decree-Law and this Resolution, both the worker and the employer shall abide by the clauses of the employment contract according to each of the work types set out in Clause (1) of this Article.1. Subject to the provisions of Article (6) of the Decree-Law, the types of work permits shall be determined as follows: a.Work permit (recruiting a worker from outside the State): /T_his type of permit allows establishments registered with the Ministry to recruit a worker from outside the State. b.Transfer work permit: /T_his type of permit is issued to allow a non-national worker to transfer from and to an establishment registered with the Ministry. c.Work permit for residents sponsored by their families: /T_his type of permit is issued to residents who are sponsored by their family and employed to work in an establishment registered with the Ministry. d.Temporary work permit: /T_his type of permit is issued to a worker who is employed for a job, the execution or completion of which is within a speciﬁc period at an establishment registered with the Ministry. e.Mission permit: /T_his type of permit allows an establishment registered with the Ministry to recruit a worker from abroad to complete a temporary job or a particular project for a speciﬁc period. f.Part-time work permit: /T_his type of permit allows establishments registered with the Ministry to employ a worker under a part-time contract where their working hours or working days are less than their full-time counterparts. /T_he worker may work for more than one employer after obtaining a permit to do so from the Ministry. g.Juvenile permit: /T_his type of permit is issued to a person who has reached 15 years of age but is not over 18 years and is employed at an establishment registered with the Ministry. h.Student training and employment permit: /T_his type of permit allows establishments registered with the Ministry to train or employ a student who is already in the State and has reached 15 years of age, pursuant to rules and conditions that ensure appropriate training and work environment. i.UAE / GCC national permit: /T_his type of permit allows establishments registered with the Ministry to employ UAE or GCC nationals. j.Golden visa holders permit: /T_his type of permit is issued upon the request of an establishment registered with the Ministry that wishes to employ a worker holding a golden visa in the State. k.National trainee permit: /T_his type of permit is issued upon the request of establishments registered with the Ministry that wish to train a UAE national, based on his approved academic qualiﬁcation. l.Freelance permit: /T_his permit is issued to individuals wishing to undertake independent self-employment (without being sponsored by a speciﬁc organization or employer in the State and without the condition of having a valid employment contract, whereby the natural person earns money by providing his services for a speciﬁc period or performing a task or providing a speciﬁc service, whether to individuals or establishments, whereas this natural person is in no way a worker for those individuals or establishments). 2. New work permits may be created by resolution of the Minister in accordance with the provisions of the Decree-Law.►Types of Work PermitsArticle (6) 52 53 1.Conditions for issuing work permits: a.Except for the juvenile permit and the student training or employment permit, the worker should be at least 18 years old. b./T_he worker must meet the conditions stipulated in the applicable legislation in this regard, including specialised professions or any other profession that requires a license to practice it. c./T_he occupation in which the worker will be employed should be consistent with the activity of the establishment. d./T_he establishment's license must be valid, and there must be no violations that could result in the suspension of its operations in accordance with legal regulations. e./T_he application for the issuance of the permit shall be ﬁled by the legally authorised signatory of the establishment. f.Any other conditions determined by the resolution of the Minister or whomever he delegates. 2.Procedures for renewing work permits: a./T_he submission of the application shall be through the channels speciﬁed by the Ministry b.Fulﬁlment of the conditions for issuance. c.Completion of the required documents and academic qualiﬁcations. Payment of the prescribed fees according to the type of permit and the category of the establishment, in accordance with the approved establishment classiﬁcation system. d.Any other procedures determined by resolution of the Minister or whomever he delegates. 3.Procedures for cancelling work permits: a./T_he submission of an application for cancelling the work permit shall be through the channels speciﬁed by the Ministry: b.Completion of the required data and attached documents. c.Payment of the ﬁnes for delays in issuing the work permit or for failure to renew it, if any. d.Acknowledgment by the establishment of granting the worker all of their entitlements. e.Any other conditions determined by resolution of the Minister or whomever he delegates. 4./T_he Ministry may refrain from issuing or renewing or may cancel work permits and take necessary legal action in cases where any of the below is proven: a./T_hat any incorrect documents were submitted. b./T_hat the establishment is ﬁctitious or does not exercise its registered activity. c./T_hat the Wage Protection System or any other system adopted for the regulation of the national labour market is not complied with. d. Any other cases speciﬁed by resolution of the Minister or whomever he delegates.►Conditions, Rules and Procedures for Issuing, Renewing and Cancelling Work PermitsArticle (7) 1.Subject to the provisions of Article (6) of the Decree-Law, engaging in the activity of mediation or temporary employment and outsourcing (singly or collectively) shall be considered as engaging in the activity of employment agencies. /T_he following deﬁnitions shall be used within the scope of work for employment agencies: a.Mediation: Which is the bringing together of both employment parties and their representatives, negotiating on their behalf the terms of the employment contract with the aim of establishing an employment relationship, without the agency becoming a party thereto. b.Temporary employment and outsourcing: Employing the worker with the intention of making him available to a third party, whereas the worker’s relationship becomes a direct one with the agency that outsourced his services to a third party (the beneﬁciary). c.Beneﬁciary: Any natural or legal person for whom and under whose supervision the worker is assigned, in accordance with the temporary employment and outsourcing system, whether for a speciﬁc period or the performance of a task or the provision of a speciﬁc service. d.Agency: Any sole proprietorship or legal entity that undertakes an activity relating to mediation or temporary employment and outsourcing and provides the services of one or more workers for a speciﬁc period or the performance of a task or the provision of a speciﬁc service to the beneﬁciary. 2./T_he following conditions shall be met to obtain a licence to engage in any of the agency activities: a./T_he person in the sole proprietorship, or any of the partners in the legal entity, shall not have been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or dishonesty, a crime of human traﬃcking or the crimes set out in the Decree-Law, unless the person has recovered their civil rights if they were sentenced to a custodial penalty, or after the lapse of one year from the date of the ruling if they were sentenced to a ﬁne. b./T_he sole proprietorship or the legal entity shall render to the Ministry at all times throughout the validity of the licence a bank guarantee of a value not less than (300,000) three hundred thousand UAE Dirham in the case of licensing an intermediation agency, and not less than (1,000,000) one million UAE Dirham in the case of licensing a temporary employment and outsourcing agency, or in the case of combining the two activities. /T_he guarantee shall be automatically renewed or an insurance system shall be provided as an alternative thereto, and the Ministry may allocate all or some of the bank guarantee or insurance to pay any amounts owed by the agency for its failure to implement its obligations or for non-compliance with the instructions and resolutions issued thereunder. c./T_he credit report that is issued by the competent authority for the licence applicant, or the person in the sole proprietorship and the partners in the legal entity, shall be submitted. d. Any other conditions determined by the resolution of the Minister . 3./T_he licence issued by the Ministry to the employment agency shall be renewed annually, subject to veriﬁcation of the continuous fulﬁlment of all licensing conditions. 4.Rules for engaging in temporary employment/ outsourcing activity: a./T_he agency shall refrain from providing workers to a beneﬁciary if the beneﬁciary company is administratively suspended by the Ministry for committing violations relating to the application of the Decree-law and this Resolution. b./T_he agency shall refrain from providing workers to another agency engaged in the activity of temporary employment with the aim of employing them at the beneﬁciary. c./T_he person in the sole proprietorship or any of the partners in the legal entity shall be in charge of applying the provisions of the Decree-law and its Implementing Regulation to the workers registered therewith, and of notifying the competent authorities at the Ministry if they become aware of any violation or breach of the rights or the health and safety of the workers by the beneﬁciary. d.Any other rules decided by the Ministry. 5.To ensure the proper governance of the relationship between the beneﬁciary and a worker who is registered with one of the employment agencies, a contract shall be concluded between the agency and the beneﬁciary. 6./T_he procedures for issuing a licence to the temporary employment and outsourcing or intermediation agency shall include: a.Submission of an application through the channels speciﬁed by the Ministry. b.Fulﬁlment of the conditions for issuing the licence. c.Fulﬁlment of the required guarantees and insurances. d.Payment of the prescribed fees. e.Any other procedures determined by resolution of the Minister or whomever he delegates. 7.Procedures for suspending or revoking the licence of employment agencies: /T_he Ministry may temporarily suspend or revoke the agency’s licence if one of the following cases is veriﬁed: a.If one of the conditions under which the licence was issued is not met. b.If any of the documents or data submitted for licensing purposes is proven to be incorrect. c.If the agency commits any act that involves any form of forced labour or human traﬃcking. d.In the event of non-payment of the workers' wages. e.In the event of the violation of any of the other conditions determined by the Ministry.1.Freelance is an independent and ﬂexible work arrangement, whereby the natural person generates income by providing his services for a speciﬁed period of time or performing a task or providing a speciﬁc service, whether for individuals or establishments, whereas this natural person is in no way a worker for those individuals or establishments. 2./T_he Cabinet shall, based on the Minister’s proposal, issue the necessary resolutions for determining the procedures, rules and mechanisms for registering freelancers in the Ministry’s systems and for obtaining, renewing and cancelling the work permit, in a manner that ensures the enhancement of labour market ﬂexibility and its requirements.►FreelanceArticle (8) 1.Subject to the provisions of Article (6) of the Decree-Law, engaging in the activity of mediation or temporary employment and outsourcing (singly or collectively) shall be considered as engaging in the activity of employment agencies. /T_he following deﬁnitions shall be used within the scope of work for employment agencies: a.Mediation: Which is the bringing together of both employment parties and their representatives, negotiating on their behalf the terms of the employment contract with the aim of establishing an employment relationship, without the agency becoming a party thereto. b.Temporary employment and outsourcing: Employing the worker with the intention of making him available to a third party, whereas the worker’s relationship becomes a direct one with the agency that outsourced his services to a third party (the beneﬁciary). c.Beneﬁciary: Any natural or legal person for whom and under whose supervision the worker is assigned, in accordance with the temporary employment and outsourcing system, whether for a speciﬁc period or the performance of a task or the provision of a speciﬁc service. d.Agency: Any sole proprietorship or legal entity that undertakes an activity relating to mediation or temporary employment and outsourcing and provides the services of one or more workers for a speciﬁc period or the performance of a task or the provision of a speciﬁc service to the beneﬁciary. 2./T_he following conditions shall be met to obtain a licence to engage in any of the agency activities: a./T_he person in the sole proprietorship, or any of the partners in the legal entity, shall not have been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or dishonesty, a crime of human traﬃcking or the crimes set out in the Decree-Law, unless the person has recovered their civil rights if they were sentenced to a custodial penalty, or after the lapse of one year from the date of the ruling if they were sentenced to a ﬁne. b./T_he sole proprietorship or the legal entity shall render to the Ministry at all times ►Activities of Recruitment AgenciesArticle (9) throughout the validity of the licence a bank guarantee of a value not less than (300,000) three hundred thousand UAE Dirham in the case of licensing an intermediation agency, and not less than (1,000,000) one million UAE Dirham in the case of licensing a temporary employment and outsourcing agency, or in the case of combining the two activities. /T_he guarantee shall be automatically renewed or an insurance system shall be provided as an alternative thereto, and the Ministry may allocate all or some of the bank guarantee or insurance to pay any amounts owed by the agency for its failure to implement its obligations or for non-compliance with the instructions and resolutions issued thereunder. c./T_he credit report that is issued by the competent authority for the licence applicant, or the person in the sole proprietorship and the partners in the legal entity, shall be submitted. d. Any other conditions determined by the resolution of the Minister . 3./T_he licence issued by the Ministry to the employment agency shall be renewed annually, subject to veriﬁcation of the continuous fulﬁlment of all licensing conditions. 4.Rules for engaging in temporary employment/ outsourcing activity: a./T_he agency shall refrain from providing workers to a beneﬁciary if the beneﬁciary company is administratively suspended by the Ministry for committing violations relating to the application of the Decree-law and this Resolution. b./T_he agency shall refrain from providing workers to another agency engaged in the activity of temporary employment with the aim of employing them at the beneﬁciary. c./T_he person in the sole proprietorship or any of the partners in the legal entity shall be in charge of applying the provisions of the Decree-law and its Implementing Regulation to the workers registered therewith, and of notifying the competent authorities at the Ministry if they become aware of any violation or breach of the rights or the health and safety of the workers by the beneﬁciary. d.Any other rules decided by the Ministry. 5.To ensure the proper governance of the relationship between the beneﬁciary and a worker who is registered with one of the employment agencies, a contract shall be concluded between the agency and the beneﬁciary. 6./T_he procedures for issuing a licence to the temporary employment and outsourcing or intermediation agency shall include: a.Submission of an application through the channels speciﬁed by the Ministry. b.Fulﬁlment of the conditions for issuing the licence. c.Fulﬁlment of the required guarantees and insurances. d.Payment of the prescribed fees. e.Any other procedures determined by resolution of the Minister or whomever he delegates. 7.Procedures for suspending or revoking the licence of employment agencies: /T_he Ministry may temporarily suspend or revoke the agency’s licence if one of the following cases is veriﬁed: a.If one of the conditions under which the licence was issued is not met. b.If any of the documents or data submitted for licensing purposes is proven to be incorrect. c.If the agency commits any act that involves any form of forced labour or human traﬃcking. d.In the event of non-payment of the workers' wages. e.In the event of the violation of any of the other conditions determined by the Ministry. 54 55 1.Subject to the provisions of Article (6) of the Decree-Law, engaging in the activity of mediation or temporary employment and outsourcing (singly or collectively) shall be considered as engaging in the activity of employment agencies. /T_he following deﬁnitions shall be used within the scope of work for employment agencies: a.Mediation: Which is the bringing together of both employment parties and their representatives, negotiating on their behalf the terms of the employment contract with the aim of establishing an employment relationship, without the agency becoming a party thereto. b.Temporary employment and outsourcing: Employing the worker with the intention of making him available to a third party, whereas the worker’s relationship becomes a direct one with the agency that outsourced his services to a third party (the beneﬁciary). c.Beneﬁciary: Any natural or legal person for whom and under whose supervision the worker is assigned, in accordance with the temporary employment and outsourcing system, whether for a speciﬁc period or the performance of a task or the provision of a speciﬁc service. d.Agency: Any sole proprietorship or legal entity that undertakes an activity relating to mediation or temporary employment and outsourcing and provides the services of one or more workers for a speciﬁc period or the performance of a task or the provision of a speciﬁc service to the beneﬁciary. 2./T_he following conditions shall be met to obtain a licence to engage in any of the agency activities: a./T_he person in the sole proprietorship, or any of the partners in the legal entity, shall not have been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or dishonesty, a crime of human traﬃcking or the crimes set out in the Decree-Law, unless the person has recovered their civil rights if they were sentenced to a custodial penalty, or after the lapse of one year from the date of the ruling if they were sentenced to a ﬁne. b./T_he sole proprietorship or the legal entity shall render to the Ministry at all times throughout the validity of the licence a bank guarantee of a value not less than (300,000) three hundred thousand UAE Dirham in the case of licensing an intermediation agency, and not less than (1,000,000) one million UAE Dirham in the case of licensing a temporary employment and outsourcing agency, or in the case of combining the two activities. /T_he guarantee shall be automatically renewed or an insurance system shall be provided as an alternative thereto, and the Ministry may allocate all or some of the bank guarantee or insurance to pay any amounts owed by the agency for its failure to implement its obligations or for non-compliance with the instructions and resolutions issued thereunder. c./T_he credit report that is issued by the competent authority for the licence applicant, or the person in the sole proprietorship and the partners in the legal entity, shall be submitted. d. Any other conditions determined by the resolution of the Minister . 3./T_he licence issued by the Ministry to the employment agency shall be renewed annually, subject to veriﬁcation of the continuous fulﬁlment of all licensing conditions. 4.Rules for engaging in temporary employment/ outsourcing activity: a./T_he agency shall refrain from providing workers to a beneﬁciary if the beneﬁciary company is administratively suspended by the Ministry for committing violations relating to the application of the Decree-law and this Resolution. b./T_he agency shall refrain from providing workers to another agency engaged in the activity of temporary employment with the aim of employing them at the beneﬁciary. c./T_he person in the sole proprietorship or any of the partners in the legal entity shall be in charge of applying the provisions of the Decree-law and its Implementing Regulation to the workers registered therewith, and of notifying the competent authorities at the Ministry if they become aware of any violation or breach of the rights or the health and safety of the workers by the beneﬁciary. d.Any other rules decided by the Ministry. 5.To ensure the proper governance of the relationship between the beneﬁciary and a worker who is registered with one of the employment agencies, a contract shall be concluded between the agency and the beneﬁciary. 6./T_he procedures for issuing a licence to the temporary employment and outsourcing or intermediation agency shall include: a.Submission of an application through the channels speciﬁed by the Ministry. b.Fulﬁlment of the conditions for issuing the licence. c.Fulﬁlment of the required guarantees and insurances. d.Payment of the prescribed fees. e.Any other procedures determined by resolution of the Minister or whomever he delegates. 7.Procedures for suspending or revoking the licence of employment agencies: /T_he Ministry may temporarily suspend or revoke the agency’s licence if one of the following cases is veriﬁed: a.If one of the conditions under which the licence was issued is not met. b.If any of the documents or data submitted for licensing purposes is proven to be incorrect. c.If the agency commits any act that involves any form of forced labour or human traﬃcking. d.In the event of non-payment of the workers' wages. e.In the event of the violation of any of the other conditions determined by the Ministry.1.Subject to the provisions of Article (6) of the Decree-Law, engaging in the activity of mediation or temporary employment and outsourcing (singly or collectively) shall be considered as engaging in the activity of employment agencies. /T_he following deﬁnitions shall be used within the scope of work for employment agencies: a.Mediation: Which is the bringing together of both employment parties and their representatives, negotiating on their behalf the terms of the employment contract with the aim of establishing an employment relationship, without the agency becoming a party thereto. b.Temporary employment and outsourcing: Employing the worker with the intention of making him available to a third party, whereas the worker’s relationship becomes a direct one with the agency that outsourced his services to a third party (the beneﬁciary). c.Beneﬁciary: Any natural or legal person for whom and under whose supervision the worker is assigned, in accordance with the temporary employment and outsourcing system, whether for a speciﬁc period or the performance of a task or the provision of a speciﬁc service. d.Agency: Any sole proprietorship or legal entity that undertakes an activity relating to mediation or temporary employment and outsourcing and provides the services of one or more workers for a speciﬁc period or the performance of a task or the provision of a speciﬁc service to the beneﬁciary. 2./T_he following conditions shall be met to obtain a licence to engage in any of the agency activities: a./T_he person in the sole proprietorship, or any of the partners in the legal entity, shall not have been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or dishonesty, a crime of human traﬃcking or the crimes set out in the Decree-Law, unless the person has recovered their civil rights if they were sentenced to a custodial penalty, or after the lapse of one year from the date of the ruling if they were sentenced to a ﬁne. b./T_he sole proprietorship or the legal entity shall render to the Ministry at all times throughout the validity of the licence a bank guarantee of a value not less than (300,000) three hundred thousand UAE Dirham in the case of licensing an intermediation agency, and not less than (1,000,000) one million UAE Dirham in the case of licensing a temporary employment and outsourcing agency, or in the case of combining the two activities. /T_he guarantee shall be automatically renewed or an insurance system shall be provided as an alternative thereto, and the Ministry may allocate all or some of the bank guarantee or insurance to pay any amounts owed by the agency for its failure to implement its obligations or for non-compliance with the instructions and resolutions issued thereunder. c./T_he credit report that is issued by the competent authority for the licence applicant, or the person in the sole proprietorship and the partners in the legal entity, shall be submitted. d. Any other conditions determined by the resolution of the Minister . 3./T_he licence issued by the Ministry to the employment agency shall be renewed annually, subject to veriﬁcation of the continuous fulﬁlment of all licensing conditions. 4.Rules for engaging in temporary employment/ outsourcing activity: a./T_he agency shall refrain from providing workers to a beneﬁciary if the beneﬁciary company is administratively suspended by the Ministry for committing violations relating to the application of the Decree-law and this Resolution. b./T_he agency shall refrain from providing workers to another agency engaged in the activity of temporary employment with the aim of employing them at the beneﬁciary. c./T_he person in the sole proprietorship or any of the partners in the legal entity shall be in charge of applying the provisions of the Decree-law and its Implementing Regulation to the workers registered therewith, and of notifying the competent authorities at the Ministry if they become aware of any violation or breach of the rights or the health and safety of the workers by the beneﬁciary. d.Any other rules decided by the Ministry. 5.To ensure the proper governance of the relationship between the beneﬁciary and a worker who is registered with one of the employment agencies, a contract shall be concluded between the agency and the beneﬁciary. 6./T_he procedures for issuing a licence to the temporary employment and outsourcing or intermediation agency shall include: a.Submission of an application through the channels speciﬁed by the Ministry. b.Fulﬁlment of the conditions for issuing the licence. c.Fulﬁlment of the required guarantees and insurances. d.Payment of the prescribed fees. e.Any other procedures determined by resolution of the Minister or whomever he delegates. 7.Procedures for suspending or revoking the licence of employment agencies: /T_he Ministry may temporarily suspend or revoke the agency’s licence if one of the following cases is veriﬁed: a.If one of the conditions under which the licence was issued is not met. b.If any of the documents or data submitted for licensing purposes is proven to be incorrect. c.If the agency commits any act that involves any form of forced labour or human traﬃcking. d.In the event of non-payment of the workers' wages. e.In the event of the violation of any of the other conditions determined by the Ministry.Article (10) ►Employment Contract Subject to the provisions of Article (8) of /T_he Decree-Law: 1./T_he employment contract should include the name and address of the employer, the name, nationality and date of birth of the worker, proof of his identity, his qualiﬁcation, the job or occupation, the date of work commencement, the workplace, the working hours, the rest days, the probationary period, if any, the term of the contract, the wage agreed upon including the beneﬁts and allowances, the annual leave entitlements, the notice period, the procedures for terminating the employment contract and any other data determined by the Ministry in order to regulate the relationship between both parties. 2./T_he worker and the employer may agree to introduce new clauses to the approved contract forms, provided that they are in agreement with the provisions of the Decree-Law, this Resolution and the Legal Regulations. 3./T_he contract may be changed from one work type to another subject to the following: a.Approval of both the worker and the employer. b.Payment of all the entitlements arising from the original contract. c.Compliance with the procedures as set out by the Ministry. 4./T_he worker and the employer shall contract for the work type agreed upon using the contract forms in the Ministry’s system, namely: a.Full-time employment contract. b.Part-time employment contract. c.Temporary work contract. d.Flexible work contract. e.Remote work contract. f.Job sharing contract. g.Any other forms of employment contract determined by resolution of the Minister in accordance with the employment types and workers’ classiﬁcation approved by the Cabinet. 56 57 Article (11) ►Issuance of New Work Permits after the Termination of an Employment Contract during Probationary Period Article (12) ►Rules for Non-Competition ClauseSubject to the provisions of Clauses (4) and (6) of Article (9) of the the Ministry may, by exception, grant certain workers an exemption from the condition of not issuing a work permit, in accordance with the following terms: 1./T_he worker possesses the skill, professional or knowledge levels in demand in the state. 2./T_he worker’s residency visa is sponsored by his family. 3./T_he worker is a golden visa holder. 4.Any professional categories according to the needs of the national labour market that are determined by resolution of the Minister in accordance with the workers’ classiﬁcation as approved by the Cabinet. 1.Subject to the provisions of Article (10) of the Decree-Law, the following shall be observed in the application of the non-competition clause stipulated therein: a./T_he geographical scope of application of the clause. b./T_he duration of the clause, provided that it does not exceed two years from the contract expiry date. c./T_he nature of the work, such that it causes signiﬁcant harm to the legitimate interests of the employer. 2.If a dispute arises over the non-competition clause and it is not settled amicably, the matter shall be referred to the judiciary and the burden of proving the alleged damage shall lie with the employer. 3./T_he non-competition clause shall not apply if the reason for terminating the contract is attributed to the employer or the breach of his legal or contractual obligations. 4.It may be agreed in writing not to apply the non-competition clause after the termination of the employment contract. 5./T_he worker shall be exempted from the non-competition clause stipulated in Article (10) of the Decree-Law under the following conditions: a.If the worker or the new employer pays to the previous employer, compensation not exceeding three months of the worker’s wage as agreed upon in the last contract, subject to the previous employer’s written consent thereto. b.If the contract is terminated during the probationary period. c.Any professional categories that are in demand in the national labour market and determined by resolution of the Minister in accordance with the workers’ classiﬁcation approved by the Cabinet.Article (13) Article (14)►Assigning the Worker to Another Job ►Rules Regarding the Organisation of Work1.Subject to the provisions of Article (12) of the Decree-Law, the worker may be assigned to alternative work that is fundamentally diﬀerent in nature from the contractually agreed work, as an exception that is considered necessary, or to prevent an accident, or to repair damage caused by the worker. /T_he maximum limit for assigning the worker to such work shall be of (90) ninety days per year. 2.In application of Clause (1) of this Article, “fundamental diﬀerence” shall mean that the work to which the worker is assigned is completely diﬀerent from the nature of his profession or his academic qualiﬁcation. Subject to the provisions of Article (13) of the Decree-Law, establishments that employ 50 or more workers shall establish the terms to govern employment practices, such as work instructions, penalties, promotions and rewards, and the procedures for terminating the employment relationship, in compliance with the following: 1./T_he terms shall be set in a manner that does not contradict the provisions and terms set out in the Decree-Law, the provisions of this Resolution and the Legal Regulations. 2./T_hey shall include the regulation of penalties that may be imposed on violating workers and the terms and conditions for imposing these penalties. 3./T_he work instructions shall include the daily working hours, the weekly rest days, the oﬃcial holidays and the necessary measures and precautions to be taken to avoid work injuries and ﬁre hazards. 4./T_he regulation of promotions and rewards shall include the criteria and rules related to promotions and rewards. 5./T_he employer shall inform the worker of the terms stipulated in this Article by any available means, and shall make them aware thereof, in a language they understand. 58 59 Article (15) ►Working Hours Subject to the provisions of Article (17) of the Decree-Law: 1./T_he periods spent by the worker commuting between his place of residence and the workplace shall be counted within the working hours in the following cases: a.Any delay to the worker in transit in case of bad weather and in response to the warnings of the National Centre of Meteorology regarding weather changes and ﬂuctuations. b.Any delay of the worker in transit in employer-provided transportation in the event of a traﬃc accident or an emergency breakdown. c.If the parties expressly agree thereon in the contract. 2./T_he regular working hours shall be reduced by two hours during the holy month of Ramadan. 3./T_he employer may instruct the worker to work overtime over the normal working hours, provided that the overtime does not exceed two hours per day unless the work is necessary to prevent the occurrence of a serious loss or a serious accident or to eliminate or mitigate the eﬀects thereof. In any case, the total working hours shall not exceed (144) one hundred and forty-four hours every (3) three weeks. 4./T_he following categories shall be exempted from the provisions relating to the maximum working hours: a./T_he chairpersons and members of the boards of directors. b./T_he persons occupying supervisory positions if such positions grant them the authority of the employer. c./T_he crews of naval vessels and the seafarers who enjoy special service conditions due to the nature of their work. d./T_hose engaged in work which is required by reasons of technical nature to be carried on continuously by a succession shift, subject to the condition that the average working hours do not exceed (56) hours per week. e.Preparatory or supplementary work that must necessarily be carried out outside the general time limits set for work in the establishment. 5./T_he Minister may issue the necessary resolutions to deﬁne the jobs mentioned in this article according to the needs of the labour market.Article (17) ►Failure to Enable the Worker to Carry Out their WorkArticle (16) ►Wages Subject to the provisions of Article (22) of the Decree-Law: 1./T_he employer shall pay the wages of their workers on their due dates pursuant to the following conditions, rules and procedures: a./T_he wages shall be paid on their due dates as agreed upon in the contract and in accordance with the regulations and standards set by the Ministry. b.All establishments registered with the Ministry shall pay the wages of their workers on their due date through the Wages Protection System or through any other system approved by the Ministry. c.All establishments shall submit whatever is required of them to prove payment of the wages of their workers if requested to do so. 2./T_he Ministry may take all the legal actions and measures provided for in the Decree-Law, this Resolution, and the relevant Legal Regulations against the establishment in the event of non-payment of the agreed wage. Subject to the provisions of Article (26) of the Decree-Law: 1./T_he employer shall enable the worker to perform their work, otherwise, they shall be required to pay their agreed wage. 2.If the failure to enable the worker to perform their work is due to circumstances beyond the employer’s control, the employer shall inform the worker thereof along with guaranteeing the payment of their wages. 3.If the worker wishes to quit their job, they shall notify the employer. In any case, the worker may ﬁle a labour complaint in accordance with the applicable Legal Regulations. 4./T_he Ministry may, upon submission of the complaint, communicate with the employer and grant them a grace period to enable the worker to perform their work. If the employer fails to respond, the Ministry may cancel the worker’s work permit and allow them to transfer to another establishment without prejudice to their rights with the employer. 60 61 Article (18) ►Annual Leave for Part-time Workers Subject to the provisions of Clause (2) of Article (29) of the Decree-Law, a part-time worker shall be entitled to an annual leave according to the actual working hours he spends with the employer. /T_he duration of the annual leave shall be determined on the basis of the total working hours after converting them into working days, divided by the number of working days in the year, multiplied by the legally prescribed leaves, with a minimum of ﬁve working days per year for annual leave, and a fraction of a day considered as a full day in calculating the leave entitlements, according to the following: 1./T_he ratio of the employee's work under a part-time contract shall be equal to the employee’s work under a full-time contract. 2./T_he actual working hours shall be equal to a maximum of (8) eight working hours per day. 3./T_he number of working hours of the employee under a part-time contract shall be equal to the number of the hours contracted. 4./T_he mathematical equation shall consist of the number of working hours under the employee’s part-time contract per year divided by the number of working hours under the full-time contract per year multiplied by 100 equal to the percentage. Article (19) ►Carrying Forward Annual Leaves or Receiving Cash Allowance in Lieu /T_hereof Subject to the provisions of Clauses (8) and (9) of Article (29) of the Decree-Law: 1./T_he worker may carry forward not more than half of the annual leave to the following year, or they may agree with the employer to receive a cash allowance in lieu thereof, according to the wage they receive at the time of their entitlement to the leave. 2.If the worker’s service ends, they shall be paid a cash allowance for the balance of their legally due annual leave, according to the basic wage.Subject to the provisions of Article (32) of the Decree-Law: 1./T_he worker may be granted a study leave to sit for exams, provided that they have obtained an admission from one of the institutes or colleges accredited in the State indicating the type of study, the specialisation and the duration of the study. /T_he establishment may request proof of the dates of their sitting for the exams. 2./T_he national worker shall be entitled to a sabbatical leave to perform national and reserve service, in accordance with the laws and regulations in force in the State. 3./T_he worker shall be entitled to a bereavement leave starting from the date of the death, provided that they submit proof of death after returning to work. 4./T_he worker shall be entitled to parental leave as stipulated in the Decree- Law, provided that they submit proof of the birth of their child. 5./T_he bereavement leave, parental leave, annual leave and unpaid leave may be combined.Article (21)Subject to the provisions of Article (31) of the Decree-Law: 1./T_he worker shall not be entitled to a wage during sick leave: a.If the disease resulted from the worker’s misconduct, such as their consumption of alcohol or drugs. b.If the worker violated the safety instructions in accordance with the legislation in force in the State, such as the instructions related to crises and disasters, traﬃc regulations or any safety procedures and rules set out in the establishment’s regulations that the worker was informed of and has acknowledged their understanding thereof and compliance therewith. 2.A report from the concerned authorities in the State proving that the disease resulted from the worker’s misconduct is a prerequisite for the implementation of the provision of Paragraph (a) of this Article.Article (20) ►Non-entitlement to Wages during Sick Leave Resulting from Worker’ s Misconduct ►Various Leaves 62 63 Article (22) ►Safety, Protection and Health Care of Workers Subject to the provisions of Article (36) of the Decree-Law: 1.Every employer shall: a.Provide the necessary means of prevention to protect workers from the risks of injuries and occupational diseases that may occur during working hours, as well as ﬁre hazards and other risks that may result from the use of machines and other work tools. /T_he employer shall likewise implement all other means of prevention prescribed by the Ministry in this regard. b.In a visible space at the workplace, display detailed and clear instructions on the means of preventing ﬁres and protecting workers from the risks they may be exposed to while on duty, the methods of preventing them and the manner of dealing with accidents caused by them, provided that the instructions are in Arabic and in another language that the workers understand. /T_he employer shall likewise place warning signs on the approach to the hazardous areas. c.Inform his workers prior to the commencement of the workers’ duty of the risks of their occupation, such as ﬁre hazards, machines, risks of falls, occupational diseases and others. d.Entrust ﬁrst-aid supervision to a medical aid specialist, and provide all the necessary supplies in each ﬁrst aid kit. e.Provide the necessary means to prevent ﬁres as well as the appropriate extinguishers for the type of materials found at the establishment and the materials used in the means of production. f.Take the necessary measures to continually ensure that the conditions in the workplace provide adequate health and safety protections for the workers at the establishment. g.Take the appropriate practical measures to prevent, reduce or eliminate health hazards in the workplace. h.Take the necessary precautions to protect the workers from the risks of falls, falling objects, ﬂying shards, sharp objects, caustic or hot liquids, ﬂammable or explosive materials or any other materials with a harmful eﬀect, and take the necessary precautions to protect the workers from hazards of compressed gases and electricity. i.Place signs at the location of machines and other relevant operations showing necessary technical instructions in Arabic and in another language that the workers understand.2./T_he worker shall use the protective equipment and the clothes they are provided with. /T_hey shall follow all the employer’s instructions aimed at protecting themselves from risks and shall refrain from any act that would interfere with those instructions. /T_hey shall follow all orders and instructions relating to work safety and security precautions and shall use the means of prevention and undertake to take care of those means of prevention in their possession. /T_hey shall be prohibited from any act that results in a failure to follow the aforementioned instructions or in the misuse, damage or destruction of the means of prevention provided to protect the health and safety of workers. /T_he employer may set out regulations outlining penalties for every worker who violates the provisions of this Clause. 3./T_he Ministry shall coordinate with the authorities concerned with public health and the care and occupational safety of workers, according to the following: a.Monitoring the employer's compliance with respect to the provision of health insurance for workers, in accordance with the legislation in force in the State. b.Coordinating with the competent local and federal authorities regarding the health and safety of the workers. c.Continually verifying the standards and requirements developed at federal and local levels in relation to the health and safety of workers and work injuries, and ensuring the workers’ obligation to comply therewith. d.Monitoring, inspecting and applying administrative penalties to establishments that violate occupational health and safety regulations. e.Circulating resolutions issued by the public health authorities regarding the health and safety of workers.Subject to the provisions of Article (36) of the Decree-Law: 1.Every employer shall: a.Provide the necessary means of prevention to protect workers from the risks of injuries and occupational diseases that may occur during working hours, as well as ﬁre hazards and other risks that may result from the use of machines and other work tools. /T_he employer shall likewise implement all other means of prevention prescribed by the Ministry in this regard. b.In a visible space at the workplace, display detailed and clear instructions on the means of preventing ﬁres and protecting workers from the risks they may be exposed to while on duty, the methods of preventing them and the manner of dealing with accidents caused by them, provided that the instructions are in Arabic and in another language that the workers understand. /T_he employer shall likewise place warning signs on the approach to the hazardous areas. c.Inform his workers prior to the commencement of the workers’ duty of the risks of their occupation, such as ﬁre hazards, machines, risks of falls, occupational diseases and others. d.Entrust ﬁrst-aid supervision to a medical aid specialist, and provide all the necessary supplies in each ﬁrst aid kit. e.Provide the necessary means to prevent ﬁres as well as the appropriate extinguishers for the type of materials found at the establishment and the materials used in the means of production. f.Take the necessary measures to continually ensure that the conditions in the workplace provide adequate health and safety protections for the workers at the establishment. g.Take the appropriate practical measures to prevent, reduce or eliminate health hazards in the workplace. h.Take the necessary precautions to protect the workers from the risks of falls, falling objects, ﬂying shards, sharp objects, caustic or hot liquids, ﬂammable or explosive materials or any other materials with a harmful eﬀect, and take the necessary precautions to protect the workers from hazards of compressed gases and electricity. i.Place signs at the location of machines and other relevant operations showing necessary technical instructions in Arabic and in another language that the workers understand.2./T_he worker shall use the protective equipment and the clothes they are provided with. /T_hey shall follow all the employer’s instructions aimed at protecting themselves from risks and shall refrain from any act that would interfere with those instructions. /T_hey shall follow all orders and instructions relating to work safety and security precautions and shall use the means of prevention and undertake to take care of those means of prevention in their possession. /T_hey shall be prohibited from any act that results in a failure to follow the aforementioned instructions or in the misuse, damage or destruction of the means of prevention provided to protect the health and safety of workers. /T_he employer may set out regulations outlining penalties for every worker who violates the provisions of this Clause. 3./T_he Ministry shall coordinate with the authorities concerned with public health and the care and occupational safety of workers, according to the following: a.Monitoring the employer's compliance with respect to the provision of health insurance for workers, in accordance with the legislation in force in the State. b.Coordinating with the competent local and federal authorities regarding the health and safety of the workers. c.Continually verifying the standards and requirements developed at federal and local levels in relation to the health and safety of workers and work injuries, and ensuring the workers’ obligation to comply therewith. d.Monitoring, inspecting and applying administrative penalties to establishments that violate occupational health and safety regulations. e.Circulating resolutions issued by the public health authorities regarding the health and safety of workers. 64 65 Article (23) ►Work Injuries Subject to the provisions of Articles (37) and (38) of the Decree-Law: 1.In the event that the worker suffers a work injury or an occupational disease, the employer shall pay the costs of treatment for the worker pursuant to the following conditions and rules: a.The worker shall be treated in one of the governmental or private healthcare facilities. b.The cost of treatment shall continue to be paid until the worker recovers or his disability is established. c.The treatment shall include the hospital stay, surgical procedures, costs of X-rays and medical analyses as well as the purchase of medications and rehabilitation equipment and the provision of artificial and prosthetic limbs and devices for those whose disability is established. d.The cost of treatment shall include the transportation costs incurred for the worker's treatment. 2.The worker shall follow the orders and instructions relating to work security and safety precautions and he shall use the means of prevention and undertake to take care of those in his possession. The worker shall be prohibited from any act that results in the failure to follow the instructions or in the misuse, damage or destruction of the means designed to protect the health and safety of workers. 3.The worker shall not be entitled to compensation for a work injury if it is established through the competent authorities that the injury resulted from a deliberate violation of preventive instructions put in visible places at the workplace, provided that the employer complies with the following rules: a.Making the worker aware of the detailed instructions on the means of preventing fires, and protecting them from the risks they may be exposed to while on duty, in Arabic and in another language that the worker understands. b.Informing the worker prior to commencement of their employment of the risks of their occupation and requiring them to use the prescribed means of prevention as well as providing the appropriate personal protective equipment for workers and training them to use such equipment. c.Training the worker on the safety methods set out in the instructions on worker protection. d.Educating the worker, upon their employment, about the risks of their occupation and the means of protection they are required to use, and placing detailed written instructions in this regard at the workplace. 4.If a work injury or an occupational disease leads to the death of the worker, the compensation shall be paid to their eligible beneficiaries in accordance with the legislation in force in the State, or as determined by the worker prior to their death.Article (24) ►Rules for Imposing Disciplinary Sanctions on Workers Subject to the provisions of Article (39) of the Decree-Law and Article (14) of this Resolution: 1.Disciplinary sanctions may be imposed on workers, taking into consideration the appropriate penalty depending on the gravity and seriousness of the committed violation, in accordance with the following criteria a.The extent of the breach of confidentiality of work-related data and information. b.The impact of the violation on the health and safety of the worker(s) at the establishment. c.The financial impact of the violation. d.The impact of the violation on the reputation of the establishment and its workers as a result of the committed violation. e.The violating worker’s abuse of the power vested in him. f.The rate of recurrence by the worker of all kinds of violations. g.The existence of a penal or moral side to the committed violation. 2.The employer shall establish a list of penalties clarifying each of the disciplinary sanctions set out in Article (39) of the Decree-Law. 3.None of the penalties set out in Article (39) of the Decree-Law may be imposed on the worker except after informing them in writing of the charges against them, hearing their statements, investigating his defence and recording the foregoing in a report to be deposited in their private file and annotated with the penalty at its end. The worker shall be notified in writing of the penalties imposed thereon, the type and amount thereof, the grounds for their imposition and the penalty they will face in case of recurrence. 4.The worker may not be accused of a disciplinary violation that was detected more than (30) thirty days ago, and no disciplinary sanction may be imposed more than (60) days after the date of completing the investigation of the violation and establishing it against the worker. 5.Without prejudice to the worker’s right to file a labour complaint, they shall have the right to file a grievance claim with the management of the establishment against any penalty imposed against them. The grievance claim against the penalty shall be filed with the management of the establishment and the worker shall not be harmed by filing it. The employer shall notify the worker of the outcome of their grievance. 6.Subject to Article (14) of this Resolution, every employer who employs (50) or more workers shall put in a visible place, or make available through any other appropriate mechanism, a system for complaints and grievance claims accessible to the workers. Said system shall stipulate that the worker has the right to file their complaint or grievance claim with the employer or their representative, and to have their grievance claim answered in writing within a specific period. 66 67 Subject to Clause (3) of Article (45) of the Decree-Law, the following circumstances shall apply in respect of grave danger at the workplace that allows the worker to leave work without warning: 1.Presence of a possible source of ignition. 2.Exposure to electrical wires connected to an electrical source that can cause electric shock or death. 3.Presence of hazardous chemicals that may cause diseases. 4.Unusual temperatures that cause burns. 5.Exposure to loud noises that cause permanent hearing damage. 6.Radiation that may cause cancer or blindness. 7.Biological hazards that may cause diseases.Article (26)Subject to the provisions of Federal Decree-Law No. (9) of 2016 on Bankruptcy, Federal Decree-Law No. (19) of 2019 on Insolvency and the provisions of Clause (8) of Article (42) of the Decree-Law: 1./T_he employment contract shall be terminated in any of the following cases: a.Issuance of a court ruling adjudicating the employer’s bankruptcy or insolvency, in accordance with the legislation in force in the State in this regard. b.Issuance of a decision by the concerned authorities to the eﬀect that the employer is unable to continue their activity for exceptional economic reasons beyond their control. 2./T_he Ministry may, Sua sponte, cancel the worker's work permit based on the judicial ruling adjudicating the employer’s bankruptcy, and it may issue them a new permit pursuant to the rules established in this regard.Article (25) ►Case of Employment Contract Termination on Account of Employer’ s Bankruptcy or Insolvency ►Rules on Grave DangerSubject to the provisions of Article (50) of the Decree-Law: 1./T_he employer shall notify the Ministry of the worker’s work abandonment pursuant to the following rules and procedures: a./T_he absence from work shall have exceeded 7 consecutive days, without the employer’s knowledge of the worker’s location or the possibility of communicating with them. b./T_he absence from work form shall be completed pursuant to the procedures set by the Ministry. 2.If the foreign worker leaves work for an illegitimate reason before the end of the contract term, they shall not be issued another work permit for a period of one year from the date of absence from work, with the exception of: a.Workers who hold a family-sponsored residency visa. b.Workers who apply for a new work permit at the same establishment. c.Workers who have professional qualiﬁcations, skills or knowledge levels in demand in the State. d.Golden visa holders. e.Any professional categories according to the needs of the labour market in the State that are determined by resolution of the Minister in accordance with the workers’ classiﬁcation approved by the Cabinet. 3./T_he Minister may issue a resolution specifying the mechanisms for reporting work abandonment according to the digital system in place at the Ministry.Article (28)1.In the event of termination of the employment contract in accordance with the provisions of the Decree-Law and this Resolution, the worker may transfer to another employer under the following conditions and cases: a.If the contract term agreed upon between the parties ends and is not renewed. b.If the contract is terminated during its term in accordance with Article (42) and Article (45) of the Decree-Law. c.If the employer terminates the contract without a reason attributed to the worker. 2./T_he Minister may issue a resolution determining the mechanisms for the transfer of the worker that is set out in this Article.Article (27) ►Transfer of Workers ►Rules for Reporting Work AbandonmentSubject to the provisions of Article (49) of the Decree-Law 68 69 Article (29) ►Rules for Deductions from End of Service Beneﬁts of Workers Subject to the provisions of Clause (7) of Article (51) of the Decree-Law: 1.The employer may deduct from the worker’s end of service entitlements any amounts that are due legally or by judicial ruling, pursuant to the following cases and procedures: a.The amounts owed by the worker as a result of loan repayments or amounts paid to them in excess of their entitlement. b.The deduction of amounts for the purpose of calculating contributions to pension and insurance benefits, in accordance with the legislation in force in the State. c.Amounts deducted from the workers for violations they commit according to the regulation of penalties applicable at the establishment and approved by the Ministry. d.Debts owed in implementation of a court ruling issued against the worker. e. Amounts for repairing damage caused by the worker, due to their fault or to their violation of the employer’s instructions and that led to the damage, destruction or loss of tools, machines, products or materials owned by the employer. 2.The employer shall have followed the procedures set out in the Decree- Law and in this Resolution when the deducted amounts involve violations committed by the worker or are a result of damage caused by their fault, and not more than (3) three months shall have lapsed from the due date of such amounts unless otherwise agreed. Article (30) ►End of Service Beneﬁts for Workers in other T ypes of Employment Subject to the provisions of Article (52) of the Decree-Law, the end of service benefits due to workers working in part-time or job-sharing types and not on a full-time basis shall be calculated pursuant to the following mechanism: 1.The number of working hours set out in the employment contract per year divided by the number of working hours in the full-time contract per year multiplied by 100 equal to the percentage on which the end of service benefit should be calculated, then, this percentage should be multiplied by the value of the end of service benefit due for the full-time employment contract. 2.The end of service benefit shall not apply in the case of temporary employment with a duration of less than one year.Article (31) ►Collective Labour DisputesSubject to the provisions of Article (54) of the Decree-Law: 1.If the employer, worker or any eligible beneficiary thereof disputes any of the rights accrued to either of them under the Decree-Law, they shall submit a complaint to that effect to the Ministry which shall examine the complaint and take the necessary measures to settle the dispute between them amicably. 2.If an amicable settlement is not possible, the Ministry shall refer the dispute to the competent court within (14) fourteen days from the date of submission of the complaint, along with a memorandum including an abstract of the dispute, the arguments of both parties and the Ministry’s recommendation. 3.Every worker whose complaint is referred to the judiciary shall promptly register their case and change their residency status. The Minister may issue the necessary resolutions regulating the status of the worker and the establishment after referring the complaint to the judiciary. 4.The worker shall have the right to claim two months’ wages if they continue to work for the employer while the referred labour dispute is in the court, in which case the Ministry may require the employer to pay that wage or refer the complaint in this regard to the judiciary. Article (32) Subject to the provisions of Article (56) of the Decree-Law: 1.If a dispute arises between the employer and all the establishment’s workers or a group thereof, and the parties fail to settle it amicably, the complainant shall file a complaint pursuant to the following rules and procedures: a.The complaint shall be filed through the channels specified by the Ministry. b.The type and amount of the claims shall be stated. c.The complaint shall be filed within two weeks from the date of the dispute. 2.The Ministry may address the concerned authorities to impose a provisional seizure on the establishment to guarantee the workers’ rights. 3.The Ministry may liquidate the bank guarantee or insurance allocated to the workers without the employer’s approval in the event that the workers’ allegation is substantiated, or it may take any other actions or measures to ensure payment of the workers’ entitlements. 4.The Ministry shall settle the dispute pursuant to the procedures determined by resolution of the Minister. If a settlement is not possible for any reason whatsoever or on account of the parties’ non-compliance with the settlement agreed upon, the dispute shall be referred to the Collective Labour Disputes Committee. 5.The Collective Labour Disputes Committees that are formed by a Cabinet resolution based on the Minister’s proposal shall settle the disputes referred thereto, and their decision shall be final and sealed with the executory formula seal by the competent court.►Individual Labour Disputes 70 71 Article (33) ►Work Inspection Procedures Subject to the provisions of Article (57) of the Decree-Law, the following applies: 1.Labour inspections shall be carried out by inspectors who are designated employees of the Ministry, and they shall have the following authorities and responsibilities: a.Monitoring the implementation of the provisions of the Decree-Law, this resolution, as well as legal regulations in a proper manner, particularly with regard to working conditions, wages, and the protection and safety of workers while performing their duties. b.Providing employers and workers with the necessary technical information and guidance to enable them to adopt the best methods for implementing the provisions of the Decree-Law and this resolution. 2.Violations of the provisions of the Decree-Law, this resolution, and legal regulations shall be documented in accordance with the following procedures: a.If the inspector identifies a violation of the Decree-Law, its implementing Regulation, or executive decisions during the inspection, they shall prepare a report documenting the violation and submit it to the competent authorities to take the necessary measures. b.The labour inspector may request, as needed, from the relevant administrative or security authorities to provide the necessary assistance. c.Violations shall be recorded and documented by inspectors in accordance with the mechanisms, systems, channels, and forms established by the Ministry. d.Employers and their representatives must provide the inspectors with the necessary facilities and information to perform their duties, and they must respond to requests for attendance, either by attending in person or by appointing a representative. 3.The Minister may issue the necessary mechanisms to regulate the work of labour inspectors and inspection procedures.►Administrative PenaltiesArticle (34) ►Procedures for Grievance Against the Ministry’s ResolutionsArticle (35) Subject to the provisions of Article (69) of the Decree-Law, both parties to the employment relationship may appeal against the Ministry’s resolutions pursuant to the following procedures: 1./T_he petition shall be ﬁled through the channels speciﬁed by the Ministry with its Grievance Committee within (30) thirty days from the date of becoming aware of the resolution. 2./T_he petition shall include all supporting data and documents. ►Emergency CircumstancesArticle (36) Subject to the provisions of the Decree-Law and this Resolution: 1.In extraordinary emergency situations, as determined by a Cabinet resolution, work measures that are commensurate with the circumstances of those cases may be applied, taking into account the interests of all the parties to the labour relationship. Such measures shall include without being limited to the following: a.Applying the remote work system. b.Granting the worker paid leave. c.Granting the worker unpaid leave. d.Reducing the worker's wage. 2.Without prejudice to the provisions of Clause (1) of this Article, the Minister shall issue the necessary resolutions for the application of the appropriate work measures in light of the extraordinary and emergency situations.Subject to the provisions of Articles (58), (59), (60), (61), (62), (63) and (64) of the Decree-Law, and in the event of the violation of the obligations stipulated in the Decree-Law and this Resolution, the Ministry shall be vested with the powers to impose the administrative penalties as stated in Article (3) of Federal Law No. (14) of 2016 referred to in the Decree-Law. 72 73 Issued by us at the Presidential Palace in Abu Dhabi: On: 2 Rajab 1443 AH Corresponding to: 03 February 2022 AD►Issuing Decisions Article (37) ►AbrogationsArticle (38) Every provision that contradicts or conﬂicts with the provisions of this Resolution shall be abrogated. ►PublicationArticle (39) /T_his Resolution shall be published in the Oﬃcial Gazette and it shall come into force as of 02 February 2022./T_he Minister shall issue the necessary decisions for the implementation of this Resolution. Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum /T_he Prime Minister 74