Issued by the Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratization –United Arab Emirates Labor AccommodationGuidelines Requirements -Standards -Registration Mechanism 2 Through this introductory booklet for the labor accommodation system, we provide you with comprehensive guidelines that indicate such adopted standards and requirements, as well as the registration mechanism for the labor accommodation system at the Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation , in order to ensure the provision of a safe, healthy, and stable environment for workers.Introduction: 3 First: Requirements for Labor Accommodation Asanemployer, youshall provide suitable accommodation licensed bythecompetent authorities fortheworker, inaccordance with therules, standards, andresolutions inforce inthe State ;ortopayacash housing allowance ;ortoinclude thecost ofhousing within thewage . Intheevent thatyour establishment employs 50ormore workers, each ofwhom earns awage ofAED 1,500 orless, you shall provide labor accommodation and ensure that such accommodation isregularly compliant with theapplicable requirements andstandards . 4 Second : Standards for Labor Accommodation 5 It shall be in proximity to : •Industrial areas. •Effective road networks.Issuance of such required permits from all relevant government authorities for the utilization of the property (as labor accommodation), including , but not limited to : •Local municipal departments across the State. •Departments of planning, surveying, lands, and properties. •Civil defense directorates. •Water and electricity companies. •Authorities concerned with licensing and supervision. Site Standards It shall be distant from : •Residential family areas (no less than 5 km). •Sources of environmental pollution. •Rainwater and flood drainage channels. 6 All installed lighting units in occupied areas and throughout the units shall meet the minimum illumination levels as determined based on safety considerations. Lighting poles/columns shall be placed in a manner that does not impede pedestrian movement.Street crossings, changes in street gradients, and any other potentially hazardous locations shall be illuminated with a higher level of illumination than the walkways.Outdoor lighting levels shall enable pedestrians to clearly identify the boundaries of walkways, changes in direction, walkway intersections, and any potential obstacles or hazards.All lamps shall be of a low -energy consumption type. Moreover, such lamps placed in recesses shall be utilized when installing suspended ceilings. Lighting: 7 •Adequate ventilation systems shall be provided in bathrooms, storage rooms, linen rooms, computer rooms, kitchens, lavatories, ovens, changing/showering rooms, swimming pools, as well as other areas containing sources of pollution. •A system to control temperature, humidity, and air velocity shall be provided in order to ensure a comfortable environment, fulfill requirements, and reduce microbes and pollutants in all air -conditioned spaces. •The relative humidity shall range between 30% and 60% in all air -conditioned areas•Rooms, kitchens, dining halls, corridors, offices, and halls shall be equipped with central ventilation and air conditioning systems in accordance with the standards and conditions adopted by the local competent authorities. In the absence of central air conditioning, the rooms shall be equipped with individual air conditioning units. •A window with curved louvers made of aluminum for ventilation shall be installed at a low level in the door of each bedroom or bathroom to provide ventilation. •The quality of indoor air in the building shall be maintained and supplied with outdoor air in accordance with the adopted rates . Ventilation and Air Conditioning: Anairextraction system shall beinstalled inthebathrooms todischarge airoutside thebuilding . 8 The ceiling height shall not be less than 7 feet ( 2.1 m). Each person shall be provided with a designated sleeping space, even in the case of shifts. A bed, a side table, and a 2-meter high wardrobe equipped with a lock shall be provided for each person, ensuring their replacement in case of wear. The cleanliness of bed linens and pillows shall be ensured.The use of triple -decker beds shall not be used. Bedrooms and Their Annexes: No flammable materials shall be entered into the bedrooms.Shoe racks shall be placed at the entrance of each room (on the exterior side). Washing and cooking inside the rooms shall be prohibited. Curtains shall be provided for the windows Sufficient lockers shall be provided for each worker. 9 Cleanliness shall be maintained at all times . Cleaning shall be carried out no less than once per day.Bathroom supplies, including clothes and towel hooks, soap, mirrors, storage cabinets, toilet paper, etc., shall be provided in quantities sufficient for the number of users.The provision of water cooling and water heating means shall be ensured throughout the year, with the provision of mixing valves. Handwashing sinks shall be provided in a number that corresponds to the number of workers residing in the accommodation. Showering facilities shall be provided in a number that corresponds to the number of workers residing in the accommodation. Sanitary Facilities: 10 The kitchen shall be managed by a licensed food services company, by the food team of the accommodation management, or the ki tchen shall be equipped for self -use by the workers. Comfortable seating and a television set shall be provided for the lounges.Each residential unit shall be equipped with a kitchen that complies with the public health standards stipulated by the competent authorities. The conditions and standards for gas extensions shall be fulfilled in accordance with such requirements of the competent authorities. The dining hall shall be located near the kitchen. It shall be equipped with all the following supplies: (tables, chairs, a drinking water refrigerator, a handwashing facility, soap, tissues). Clean and cold drinking water shall be provided in a quantity that corresponds to the number of workers. Moreover, it shall b e ensured that water coolers are distributed throughout all areas of the accommodation. Shopping stores shall be available within the vicinity of the accommodation to provide basic food items for cooking (and in t he absence of such stores, the establishment shall provide meals that ensure healthy nutrition for the workers).The cleanliness of the kitchen and dining hall shall be maintained at all times . In addition, the kitchen and dining hall shall be provided with pest control means.Dining halls shall be equipped to accommodate the number of workers residing therein.Kitchens, Dining Halls, and Lounges: 11 In the event that the above requirements cannot be met, the laundry process may be outsourced to an external company.The shared laundry shall be equipped with all supplies, such as washing machines, in a number that corresponds to the number of workers in the accommodation, while ensuring their periodic maintenance.Shared laundries shall be designed in accordance with the technical requirements of the competent authority.Shared laundry facilities shall be located on the ground floor of the residential unit.Laundry services shall be provided according to an announced schedule. In addition, a person shall be appointed to be responsible for managing the said services, or the unit shall be provided with shared laundry facilities. The Laundry: 12 A first aid room shall be provided and equipped with furniture, equipment, and a medicine storage box. Isolation rooms shall be provided in a number that corresponds to the number of occupants. However, the said isolation rooms shall be equipped with adequate furniture, equipment, and a private bathroom. •Allocation of an ambulance. •A plan or guide concerning the implementation of precautionary measures to combat the spread of diseases in the building shall be in place.(Accommodation that houses 1,000 or more workers) shall have an on -site medical clinic. The said on -site medical clinic shall be equipped to operate 24 hours a day, seven days a week. In addition, it shall meet the following specifications: •Ease of access, and be provided with ramps if necessary. •Provision of a waiting area for patients and appropriately sized rooms/offices. •Appointment of a sufficient number of staff, including a rotating physician and a nurse. Medical Services: 13 All effective measures shall be taken to prevent the presence or proliferation of pests such as insects and rodents.Public Health Pests: A periodic contract shall be made with a company specializing in pest control. However, the said company shall be licensed by the competent authority.A contract shall be made with a company specializing in cleaning the accommodation facilities. However, the said company shall be licensed by the competent authority .The accommodation shall be cleaned on a daily basis .A sufficient number of tightly sealed trash containers shall be provided. Such trash containers shall be emptied and cleaned daily.Waste and Cleanliness: The waste disposal mechanism shall fulfill such conditions set by the competent authority.Public Health: 14 •Abarbershop, agrocery store (which shall stock basic food items forcooking) toserve theresidents only, and places ofworship shall beprovided . •Theaccommodation shall besupplied with water, electricity, sanitation, andgas. •Firesystems shall beaspertherequirements ofthecompetent authorities . •Food items shall bestored insealed containers toensure they arenotexposed tospoilage orinsects . •Prepared spaces forpracticing light physical andsports activities, such asopen yards ormulti -purpose facilities, shall beprovided . •Thestructural integrity ofthebuildings shall beensured, freefrom cracks oranystructural hazards inthewalls or ceilings . •Acontract shall bemade with aspecialized company fortheperiodic cleaning oftheaccommodation facilities . Other Services: Accommodation that houses 1,000 or more workers: Various sports courts and financial service machines shall be provided. 15 Adequate space for vehicle movement shall be provided, taking into account the following:Adequate space for safe pedestrian movement shall be provided, with the placement of directional signs and the provision of sufficient waiting areas at bus stops and vehicle parking for workers to board and assemble after disembarking. •Thedelivery, securing, andstorage offood. •Emergency exits andassembly points . •Waste management . •Exterior lighting•Entry and exit points. •Parking of buses and cars. •Fire prevention and alarm systems. •The accessibility of emergency vehicles to all buildings . The accommodation management shall ensure the provision of an environment suitable for the residency of persons with disabilities (people of determination, injured workers). A sufficient number of electric elevators shall be provided, in proportion to the number of floors, as well as the number of workers in the accommodation.Mobility and Movement: 16 Employees, workers, or visitors shall not use smoking products except in designated areas or outdoor areas, provided that they maintain a distance of 20feet ( 6 m) from the perimeter of any entrance or air intake vent. For the accommodation that houses 1,000 or more workers: •The accommodation shall be equipped with a security system for the surveillance of all its parts. •The ability to control electricity and water from outside the accommodation shall be ensured.A sufficient number of supervisors shall be provided around the clock.A contract shall be made with a licensed company to provide guarding and security services. Compliance with the requirements of the Civil Defense shall be continuously ensured, such as : (the integrity of exits, fire systems, extinguishers, hoses, alarm devices, sensors). Health, Safety, and Security: 17 The accommodation management shall provide: •Coordinate communication between the accommodation management and third parties (Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation , Police, and the Civil Defense Authority). •Appoint a sufficient number of employees/workers within the labor accommodation, commensurate with such capacity of the accommodation, and provide them with the appropriate training. •Provide all the aforementioned services and standards. •Coordinate inspection operations on all units while monitoring and managing the actual occupancy rate against the planned rate. •Issue instructions and follow up on periodic maintenance, cleaning activities, catering, food provision, and facility management. •Ensure the adherence of employees, contractors, and occupants to the regulations established for the accommodation. •Manage all accommodation facilities in a safe and effective manner in accordance with the aforementioned standards and procedures. •Maintain records of residents within an updated database.A commitment to organizing recreational events for the residents during official holidays.A clear mechanism or forms for receiving and archiving complaints in a manner that ensures confidentiality.Free internet network coverage for all accommodation facilities.A detailed guide that outlines clear emergency plans and training for workers on evacuation procedures.A plan or guide concerning the implementation of precautionary measures to combat the spread of diseases in the building. The Accommodation Manager shall undertake the following:Accommodation Management: 18 The Accommodation Manager shall develop an awareness program and ensure the enrollment of all residents in said program. The said program shall include the following:Personal hygiene, waste disposal mechanism, and pest control.Fire prevention measures, use of firefighting equipment, identification of responsible personnel in such emergency situations, as well as the conduct of periodic emergency evacuation drills. Large, clearly visible posters outlining the house rules shall be placed on each floor, in the predominant language of the oc cupants of the accommodation. The house rules shall include, as a minimum, the following points: •Storage mechanism. •Conservation of water and electricity. •Visitor reception mechanism . •Any other matter the Manager deems appropriate.•Cleanliness and waste disposal. •Loud music. •Clear prohibitions (smoking, cooking in rooms, etc.). •Tampering with accommodation equipment.Accommodati on management instructions and house rules.Pollution reduction. The Accommodation Management shall provide the following:•Guidelines regarding such rights and duties of workers in the languages of the workers present in the accommodation. •Occupational health and safety instructions and guidelines in the languages of the workers present in the accommodation. •Signs with contact numbers for emergency or for submitting complaints and suggestions to all concerned government authorities. Note : Theaccommodation management, security office, worker supply room, kitchens, dining halls, prayer room, firstaidroom, andanyother services shall belocated ontheground floor.Awareness and Guidance: 19 To view all labor accommodation standards ( scan the following code) 20 High Risk / Severe Harm Medium Risk / Potential Harm Low Risk A direct risk to life or health, or an explicit violation of the law.Regulatory or structural violations that could pose a risk in the medium term; however, they require rectification.Minor violations that do not affect safety in the short term; however, they require rectification.Harm Level Assessment Method Classification of Violations 21 •Absence ofelectricity . •Expired safety certificate issued bytheCivil Defense . •Confiscation ofsuch passports oftheworkers . •Storage offlammable materials inside accommodation rooms orinareas notdesignated forthesaid purpose . •Lack ofclean, usable water (cold drinking water shall beprovided inaquantity thatcorresponds tothenumber ofworkers ;onewater cooler per30workers, with acapacity ofnolessthan 35gallons, anditshall beensured thatthecoolers aredistributed throughout allareas oftheaccommodation) . •Damaged sewage networks orleakage ofsewage water inside theaccommodation . •Malfunctions intoilets thatrender thetoilets unusable orbroken, thereby causing environmental pollution . •Presence ofcooking tools intherooms, which allows forthepreparation offood intherooms . •Malfunctioning airconditioners orinadequate ventilation . •Exposed orrandomly installed electrical wiring thatconstitutes ariskofelectric shock orfire. •Exceeding thepermitted number ofworkers inaroom (severe overcrowding) . •Failure toprovide abedforeach worker (sleeping onthefloor) . •Presence ofinsect orrodent infestations with notreatment . •Poor ventilation inthecorridors, which causes suffocation orcreates anuninhabitable environment . •Absence of/difficulty inaccessing andusing firstaidboxes . •Lack ofcleanliness (inrooms, corridors, laundry rooms, kitchens, ortoilets) . •Ineffective ventilation inthekitchen . •Wires, plugs, andgaspipes thatarenotcompliant with standards . •Failure toprovide asufficient number ofsupervisors around theclock . •Failure toprovide security guards around theclock byalicensed company . •Absence ormalfunction offirefighting systems (extinguishers -hoses -alarms -sensors) . •Absence ofemergency exits ortheir being locked/obstructed . •Presence ofcracks orastructural hazard inthewalls orceilings . •Absence ofanequipped clinic intheaccommodation .Examples : Classification of Violations High Risk / Severe Harm A direct risk to life or health, or an explicit violation of the law.Harm Level Assessment Method 22 •Lack ofcleanliness ofbedlinens andpillows . •Lack ofisolation rooms forindividuals with infectious diseases orworkers who aretemporarily ill. •Confiscation ofsuch passports oftheworkers . •Asystem forwaste collection andsanitation thatissafe (bi-weekly) . •Absence ofaramp fortheentrance andsidewalks leading tothebuildings thatwould allow foreasy access forinjured persons . •Lack offree internet service provided bythe accommodation management that covers all accommodation facilities . •Improper storage offood items (uncovered –notseparated) . •Failure tocontract with aspecialized company fortheperiodic cleaning ofaccommodation facilities . •Minor water leaks from theceiling orwalls . •Absence offacilities designated forPeople ofDetermination intheaccommodation . •Useofcooking orgasappliances thatarenotsubject tomaintenance . •Thenumber ofbathrooms isnotcommensurate with thenumber ofworkers intheaccommodation, aswellasthedining rooms . •Furniture isoldormoderately damaged (personal belongings lockers forworkers intherooms require improvement) . Examples : Classification of Violations High Risk / Severe Harm Regulatory or structural violations that could pose a risk in the medium term; however, they require rectification.Harm Level Assessment Method 23 •Inadequate lighting orburnt -outlamps . •Absence ofsafety andevacuation guideline signage . •Absence ofguidelines fortheuseoffirefighting equipment . •Failure toprovide guidelines regarding therights andduties ofworkers inthelanguages oftheworkers present intheaccommodation . •Failure toprovide occupational health and safety instructions and guidelines inthelanguages oftheworkers present inthe accommodation . •Lack ofinstructional posters, evacuation signs, oranerror intheaccommodation information . •Absence ofaprayer room foraspecific group . •Minor disorder inthearrangement ofitems within therooms . •Failure toprovide sufficient lockers foreach worker . •Windows ordoors requiring minor repair . •Failure toclearly display emergency numbers . •Absence ofsigns indicating themethods forsubmitting complaints toother bodies, such astheMinistry ofHuman Resources and Emiratisation . •Absence ofregulatory andawareness notices andinstructional signs foremergencies posted intheaccommodation areas . •Absence ofamaintenance contract with aspecialized company toensure the periodic maintenance ofallfacilities inthe accommodation, including, butnotlimited to:(rooms, bathrooms, kitchens, elevators, water coolers, airconditioners, etc.). •Lack ofcurtains, resulting inreduced privacy forworkers andanuncomfortable, overcrowded environment . •Malfunctions inlaundry equipment . •Absence ofaplan orguide concerning theimplementation ofprecautionary measures tocombat thespread ofdiseases inthebuilding . •Thenumber ofelectric elevators isnotcommensurate with thenumber offloors andthenumber ofworkers intheaccommodation . •Absence ofshopping stores within thevicinity oftheaccommodation toprovide basic food items forcooking (and intheabsence of such stores, theestablishment shall provide meals thatensure healthy nutrition fortheworkers) . •Absence ofadetailed guide indicating clear emergency plans orregular training forworkers onevacuation procedures . •Absence ofexternal sports courts . •Absence ofaclear mechanism orforms forreceiving andarchiving complaints inamanner thatensures confidentiality . •Thedining halldoes nothave sufficient capacity forthetotal number ofworkers . •Minor wear andtearonthefurniture without functional impact .Low Risk Minor violations that do not affect safety in the short term; however, they require rectification.Harm Level Assessment MethodExamples : Classification of Violations 24 Accommodat ion Owner: Establishme nt Owner:The key documents required for the accommodation owner : an accommodation contract licensed by the concerned local authority; a letter from the concerned authority in case of specific t ypes of accommodation, such as governmental letters/oil sites; a navigation license; a certificate of fulfillment of preventive safet y requirements issued by the General Directorate of Civil Defense; an electricity bill from one of the water and electricity distribution co mpanies; a permit issued by the Abu Dhabi Agriculture and Food Safety Authority "for Abu Dhabi accommodations only"; a cleaning service contrac t and a pest control contract for the accommodation; as well as the commercial licenses that prove the authorization to practice the activity. Log into the system and select the approved accommodation in accordance with such needs of the company. Registration Link Mechanisms for Registering Labor Accommodation and Managing Workers in such Adopted Systems of the Ministry (The Labor Accommodation System) 25