Report Unpaid Or Delayed Salaries For any concerns or complaints regarding salary payment in the private sector, workers may contact Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation (MoHRE) or register a salary complaint. Wages are paid in accordance to Ministerial Resolution No. 598 of 2022 Regarding Wages Protection System.When should employers pay salaries? Minimum wagesReport unpaid or delayed salariesLife in the UAEJobsWorking in the private sectorPayment of salaries/wages Payment Of Salaries/Wages Paying wages on the due date is the responsibility of every employer. Private sector employers should ensure to pay their staﬀ’s salaries through the Wages Protection System to avoid penalties and ﬁnes.HomeServicesLife in the UAEAbout The UAEMediaYear of family ﻪ   اﻟﻌﺮ  5/10/26, 10:22 PM Payment of salaries/wages | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 1/8 When Should Employers Pay Salaries? All establishments registered with Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation (MoHRE) must pay their employees’ wages on the due date through the ministry’s Wage Protection System (WPS). The employee's wages are due from the ﬁrst day of the month following the expiry of the period for which the wages are speciﬁed in the employment contract. If the period is not speciﬁed in the employment contract, the employee must be paid at least once a month. The employer is considered late in paying the wage if the payment is not made within the ﬁrst 15 days after the due date, unless the employment contract speciﬁes a shorter period. Minimum Wages There is no minimum salary stipulated in the UAE Labour Law. However, it includes general provisions requiring that wages must be suﬃcient to meet the basic needs of employees. How Should Salaries/Wages Be Paid? Under the WPS, salaries of private sector employees will be transferred through banks, exchange houses or ﬁnancial institutions authorised by the Central Bank of the UAE to provide the service. The WPS was developed by the UAE Central Bank, enabling MoHRE to establish a database of wage payments in the private sector and monitor employers’ compliance with paying wages in full and onHow should salaries/wages be paid? Penalties on companies for late or non- payment of salaries/wages Categories excluded from WPS compliance 5/10/26, 10:22 PM Payment of salaries/wages | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 2/8 time. Payment can be in Emirati Dirham, or in any other currency if it is agreed upon between both parties in the employment contract. Penalties On Companies For Late Or Non-Payment Of Salaries/Wages The table below lists penalties for companies failing to pay salaries/wages on the due dates: 5/10/26, 10:22 PM Payment of salaries/wages | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 3/8 5/10/26, 10:22 PM Payment of salaries/wages | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 4/8 Source: Ministerial Resolution No. 598 of 2022 Regarding Wages Protection System Categories Excluded From WPS Compliance The following categories of employees are excluded from the WPS: those who ﬁled a wage-related labour complaint that has been referred to the judiciary 5/10/26, 10:22 PM Payment of salaries/wages | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 5/8 those who have been reported absent as per a ‘work abandonment’ report new employees during the ﬁrst 30 days from the due date of the wage those who are on unpaid leave, provided that supporting documents are duly submitted to MoHRE Additionally, the following categories of employers are excluded from the WPS compliance: UAE nationals owning ﬁshing boats UAE nationals owning public taxis Banks houses of worship. *Text provided by MoHRE Updated On:30 Mar 2026 Did You Find This Content Useful? You can help us improve by providing your feedback about your experience.Have you used our services at our service center or digitally recently? 5/10/26, 10:22 PM Payment of salaries/wages | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 6/8 Yes N0 Give us your feedback Prev topic Working hours and overtimeView all ServicesNext topic Labour accommodation This Platform About U.AE Website Statistics Digital participation policy Citizen Charter Resources Map DisclaimerOther Websites Digital Government Government Data Participation Digital Accessibility Statement Digital Accessibility Statement Site MapHelp And Support Government Entities Government Oﬃcials Tawasul 171 FAQs Contact UsEmergency Contacts Handling emergencies Police: 999 Civil Defence: 997 Ambulance: 998 Electricity authority: 991Follow Us On Powered by 5/10/26, 10:22 PM Payment of salaries/wages | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 7/8 Privacy PolicyCopyrightTerms And ConditionsDigital Accessibility Statement 2025 U.ae All rights reserved 5/10/26, 10:22 PM Payment of salaries/wages | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 8/8