Life in the UAEJobsWorking in the private sectorJob oﬀers, work permits and contractsWork permits Work Permits MoHRE has 13 types of work permits. It issues the permits to establishments registered with them, depending on the nature of the job. Read about the types of work permits and the process for applying for, renewing and cancelling work permits.HomeServicesLife in the UAEAbout The UAEMediaYear of family ﻪ   اﻟﻌﺮ  5/10/26, 10:52 PM Work permits | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 1/12 Related EServices Find eServices related to work permits issuance, renewal, amendments and cancellation. The Work Bundle The Work Bundle aims to simplify and accelerate work procedures for private sector companies through an integrated platform. It enables employers to onboard new employees and access a wide range of services, including the issuance, renewal, and cancellation of work permits and residency visas, as well as medical examination and ﬁngerprinting services required for Emirates ID issuance — all through one integrated bundle. The initiative supports the UAE Government’s direction under the Zero Bureaucracy Programme and promotes federal-local government collaboration, enhancing the UAE’s competitiveness in the ﬁnancial and business sectors. The Work Bundle improves the user experience by consolidating 5 platforms into a single uniﬁed platform. It has streamlined processes by reducing 8 services into 1 integrated experience. The number of steps has been cut from 15 (requiring 16 documents) to just 5 steps (requiring only 5 documents). Furthermore, the number of required in-person visits has dropped from 7 to 2, signiﬁcantly reducing processing time from 30 working days to just 5 working days. Read related news coverage. Getting A Work PermitThe Work Bundle Getting a work permit Types of work permits Private teacher work permit Process for applying for, renewing and cancelling work permits Cost of work permits Suspension of new work permits for violating ﬁrmsRelated eServices 5/10/26, 10:52 PM Work permits | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 2/12 According to Article 6 of the Federal Decree Law No. 33 of 2021 on the Regulation of Employment Relationships and its amendments, known as the ‘UAE Labour Law’, it is illegal for a person to work in the UAE without a valid work permit issued by the Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation (MoHRE). Likewise, employers may not recruit or employ any worker unless a work permit is issued in accordance with MoHRE procedures. Types Of Work Permits MoHRE has 13 types of work permits. It issues the permits to establishments registered with them, depending on the nature of the job. The types of work permits are as follows: 1. Work permit to recruit a worker from outside the UAE - This is issued under speciﬁc conditions and regulations. The permit is valid for two years. 2. Work permit to transfer a non-UAE worker from one establishment to another - This permit is valid for two years. 3. Work permit for a resident on a family sponsorship - It enables companies to hire residents under family sponsorship from within the UAE. The permit is valid for two years. 4. Temporary work permit - It allows establishments to assign a worker already in the UAE to perform a task for a limited period in a diﬀerent company, after which the worker returns to their original employer. 5. Mission work permit - It allows establishments to bring in a worker from outside the UAE to complete a speciﬁc temporary job or time-bound project. 6. Part-time work permit – It enables establishments to hire and employ a worker — whether from inside or outside the UAE — under a part-time contract, where the working hours or days are fewer than those of a full-time employee. A worker may work for more than one employer after obtaining approval from the Ministry. 5/10/26, 10:52 PM Work permits | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 3/12 7. Juvenile work permit – It enables establishments to recruit a juvenile aged between 15 and 18 years, under speciﬁc conditions that ensure a safe and appropriate working environment for minors. This type of work permit is valid for 1 year. 8. Student training and employment permit – It enables establishments to employ a 15-year old student who is already in the UAE, in accordance with speciﬁc terms and conditions that ensure a safe and suitable training and work environment. The permit is valid for three months. 9. UAE/GCC national work permit - It allows establishments to employ a UAE or a GCC national. The permit is valid for two years. 10. Golden visa holder work permit - It is granted to establishments wishing to employ individuals inside the UAE who hold a Golden Residency Visa. The permit is valid for two years. 11. National trainee work permit - It is issued to establishments registered with the Ministry that wish to train a UAE citizen in accordance with their approved academic qualiﬁcations. The permit is valid for 12 months, renewable upon mutual agreement between the two parties. 12. Freelance work permit - It is issued to individuals who wish to engage in freelance work independently (including foreign nationals on self-sponsored residence visas) without being sponsored by an employer in the UAE and without requiring an active employment contract. The individual generates income by providing services for a speciﬁc period, completing a task, or oﬀering a deﬁned service to individuals or companies — without being considered an employee of those entities. 13. Private teacher work permit. Private Teacher Work Permit The private teacher work permit allows specialised and qualiﬁed professionals to oﬀer private lessons to students. 5/10/26, 10:52 PM Work permits | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 4/12 Teachers registered in government or private schools, employees in the government and private sectors, unemployed individuals, school students aged 15 to 18, and university students may apply for the ‘Private Teacher Work’ permit through the MOHRE application, website or digital channels. The permit is granted free of charge for two years. Individuals oﬀering private tutoring without a permit from MOHRE will be subject to ﬁnes and penalties outlined in the applicable laws. Find Ministerial Resolution No. 710 of 2023 Regarding the Introduction of Private Tuition Work Permits (PDF, 217 KB). Read related news coverage. Process For Applying For, Renewing And Cancelling Work Permits Conditions for issuing a work permit Following are the conditions for issuing a work permit: The worker must be at least 18 years old, except in the case of a juvenile work permit or a student training/employment permit. The occupation assigned to the worker must be aligned with the business activity of the establishment. The company’s trade licence must be valid and free of violations. 5/10/26, 10:52 PM Work permits | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 5/12 The worker must meet the conditions stipulated in the applicable legislation for specialised professions or any other roles that require a licence to practise the profession. An individual legally authorised to represent the company must submit the application for the work permit. MoHRE may refrain from issuing or renewing, or may cancel work permits if the establishment: provides incorrect documents is ﬁctitious or does not exercise its registered activity or is not compliant with the ‘Wages Protection System’ or any other labour market regulatory systems in the UAE. Procedures for renewing work permits The conditions required for issuance must be met All required documents, certiﬁcates, and qualiﬁcations must be provided Fees must be paid according to the type of permit and the company’s classiﬁcation as per the Ministry’s approved establishment classiﬁcation system Procedures for cancelling work permits Submit a formal request to cancel the work permit Complete all required data and attachments Settle any outstanding ﬁnes for late issuance or non-renewal of the permit The company must conﬁrm that the worker has received all due entitlements Find more information on work permits in Articles 6 and 7 of the Cabinet Resolution No. 1 of 2022 on the Implementation Regulation of Federal Decree law No. 33 of 2021. 5/10/26, 10:52 PM Work permits | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 6/12 Additionally, learn about the situations in which the employer is not considered late in issuing and renewing the work permit as mentioned in Article 3 of the Ministerial Decree No. 46 of 2022 Regarding Work Permits, Job Oﬀers and Employment Contracts Forms. Cost Of Work Permits The cost of issuing and renewing a work permit ranges from AED 250 to AED 3,450, and it depends on the company’s classiﬁcation: A, B or C. The classiﬁcation reﬂects the extent of companies’ compliance with the UAE’s labour law, the Wages Protection System, relevant MoHRE resolutions and directives, laws relating to workers’ rights and with the policy of promoting cultural and demographic diversity. Companies with a history of violations and non-compliance will be placed in category C. Learn more about the updated fees for work permit renewals, amendments, and worker transfers between companies as per Cabinet Resolution No. 37 of 2022 Regarding the Amendment of Some Provisions of Cabinet Resolution No. 21 of 2020 Concerning Service Fees and Administrative Fines in the Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation. Below is a list of the annexes attached in the resolution: 5/10/26, 10:52 PM Work permits | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 7/12 5/10/26, 10:52 PM Work permits | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 8/12 Suspension Of New Work Permits For Violating Firms According to Ministerial Resolution No. 543 of 2022 Regarding Administrative Suspension of an Establishment’s File (PDF, 300 KB), ﬁrms will be denied new work permits if they commit any of the following four violations: 1. Committing breaches stipulated in the Cabinet Resolution No. 21 of 2020 regarding service fees and administrative ﬁnes in the Ministry of Human Resources and Emiratisation (PDF, 135 KB) 2. Failing to provide appropriate labour accommodations according to the provisions of Ministerial Resolution No. 44 of 2022 Regarding Occupational Health and Safety and labour accommodation (PDF, 265 KB) 3. Facing allegations of human traﬃcking 4. Abusing the privilege granted to access the MoHRE systems, which could result in a disruption of the ministry’s operations. The above resolution speciﬁes the duration for which work permits will be suspended. It also outlines the measures the violating ﬁrms could take to rectify their status and fulﬁl their legal obligations to become entitled to obtain work permits again. Find details relating to duration in the table below: 5/10/26, 10:52 PM Work permits | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 9/12 (Image source: Ministerial Resolution No. 543 of 2022, MoHRE). Content source: MoHRE 5/10/26, 10:52 PM Work permits | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 10/12 Updated On:13 Aug 2025 Did You Find This Content Useful? You can help us improve by providing your feedback about your experience. Yes N0Have you used our services at our service center or digitally recently? Give us your feedback Prev topic Job oﬀers and the employment processView all ServicesNext topic Employment contracts: duration and models in the private sector 5/10/26, 10:52 PM Work permits | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 11/12 This Platform About U.AE Website Statistics Digital participation policy Citizen Charter Resources Map DisclaimerOther Websites Digital Government Government Data Participation Digital Accessibility Statement Digital Accessibility Statement Site MapHelp And Support Government Entities Government Oﬃcials Tawasul 171 FAQs Contact UsEmergency Contacts Handling emergencies Police: 999 Civil Defence: 997 Ambulance: 998 Electricity authority: 991Follow Us On Powered by Privacy PolicyCopyrightTerms And ConditionsDigital Accessibility Statement 2025 U.ae All rights reserved 5/10/26, 10:52 PM Work permits | The Ofﬁcial Platform of the UAE Government 12/12